================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 161861965-144sqrr.pdf
Total Pages: 19
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 19 ---

144 Square 
 
I’m new to the group, I will post some information we can share with 
each other, about the master charts, how they interelate, and what they 
are based on.  
 
For instance the 144 square shows and defines every market move, from 
the smallest move to the largest swing, the ratios that dominate all 
market movements are the ones every one is familiar with, sacred geo, 
fib, 144 and its multiples, 144 is based on the 12 months, but more 
importantly, Jupiter’s synodic cycle, and also the 1440 minutes in the 
day, the reason why nobody can use the 144 square is they cannot put it 
in time correctly, Gann told everybody to put it on a major high or 
low, that is the biggest line of bullshit he ever wrote.  
 
All markets, you cannot find the starting point if you cannot fit every 
minute of the day into the square, when you have the repeat of a time 
price configuration at the same minute, then you know the cycle that is 
operating.

--- PAGE 2 of 19 ---

I will post seven different days that the market had its origin in the 
same time price configuration. When you understand what is happening in 
the market the master charts take on new meaning, because they are 
designed to work with each other and they do. Basically, Gann knew the 
market was only a geometric solid rotating in front of you, but he also 
knew our senses would not allow us to "see" it, so he created the 
144 square which puts a multidimensional thing like a market into a 
lattice structure that would define more correctly a two dimensional 
awareness. Smart mofo wasn’t he?  
 
The circle defines market movements, 360 degrees has in itself the key 
to the 144 square, they are incredibly related, once you understand 
what the circle really is, then you understand what the geometric solid 
is that is behind the market movements. All you need is written in 
Gann’s books and courses, it’s just your own mind that probably 
prevents you from full understanding. I write this not for recognition, 
but I know lots of Gann students work hard at this stuff, I assure the 
things he spoke of are true. Rest assured, people with tremendous left 
brain logic, atheists or agnostics will never figure Gann’s methods 
out, you need a tremendous amount of right brain awareness and cold 
logic combined, and a connection with the universal mind is also 
needed. 
 
 
Let’s take a look at time and price and see if we can balance it the 
way old Gann did. The emini today is sitting on a price level that 
was balanced some time ago, around the 1066 level, 1064 today I 
believe it closed near. The time angles are in relation to the price 
are way out of balance. Time is seriously ahead of price at this 
conjunction, the clock time balanced out at 139 at 109 pm and the 
longer term time frame came in at 71.79 time angle, the middle of 
the square, the reciprocal 1 divided by 71.79 equals 139 in time 
balancing the clock time, the price is on a 45 degree price line 
that is now old, meaning that theoretically the market tomorrow 
morning should be off to a price level near 1080 to realign itself 
with the time period, thus bringing the time and price in alignment 
with the forty five degree angle. The true forty five degree angle. 
If the market perhaps blows thru 1080, then it will go to the next 
gravity center of 1086.54, and if hits 1080 and reacts down it 
should settle near the lower gravity center of 1076. Let’s see what 
happens. The old circle of three times itself. I only ask if what I 
say is totally wrong and lame, go easy on me, im here to share with 
you guys !!! gann said that EVERYTHING seeks its gravity center, so 
let put that old dude to the test, shall we ???????????? 
 
Hi you folks 
 
I uploaded a file called time price returns, this shows three days 
exactly so many ............ apart, they are all different days, the 
times and the prices are cut off to prevent reverse enginering, 
notice the similar pattern from the opening each day, follow the 
pattersn and swings, this happened because the first day, the time 
was 49 and the price was 14.25, the harmonic ratio was 2.91, or 
three over the second square of 144,, this means price and time are 
balanced whenever your time price configurations come on the end of 
the square, the next day the time was also at the same ratio but

--- PAGE 3 of 19 ---

different time price configurations, the third day also came in on a 
2.88 harmonic, also different positions in the square, but the same 
ratio at the same time, so the pattern must repeat ,when this 
happens, this is harmonic analysis, the reason a person cannot see 
this with their eyes, is because you have no origin point to define 
time price configurations, its like walking down a five mile road 
and being asked to describe five things that repeated, not likely, 
same with the market, you need a fixed point to get points of 
mathematical force to determine when they happen again, then it is 
likely to repeat a pattern. 
 
 
I feel that the market you look at, any market you look at is an 
illusion, the time on the chart is an illusion, the price you look 
at is an illusion, but behind and back of the chart is the geometric 
solid that price and time are working off. When I say to you, "what 
time is it" and you say its 630 pm, and I say thanks, and we both 
agree that it is six thirty pm, but is it really six thirty pm ?, it 
is only 630 pm because we have a point of reference that we agree 
on, that we have been taught,that our body senses it is six thirty 
pm, at some point in time, we adopted a time system, but this time 
system is based on astro cycles, all time is based in some origin of 
an astro cycle. Ponder this. I am sitting on my porch, I am at zero 
aries or 360 pisces. I am Fred Flinstone, and hovering out in front 
of me is the great gazoo, he is not subject to the laws that i am, 
while im here on earth, so were talking and four, eight, twelve, and 
the sixteen minutes elapse and im moving and rotating right along, 
but ol gazoo remains fixed at the origin point, now we began talking 
at lets say 630 am, and time goes by some more and now i have moved 
90 degrees away from gazoo, but we are still talking and im turning 
the corner now, while he remains fixed at the starting point, 12 
hours later im now 180 degrees from gazoo, but he is still talking 
with me, i keep on moving around approaching the 270 degree position 
and we are still talking well enough, now I am approaching him 
again, as i am completing my revolution, when i get to where gazoo 
is, i have not quite completed my cycle yet, so continue past gazoo 
and stop some point further along the zodiac, ponder this goofy 
story well 
 
When the fellows in the movie quest for fire, wanted to know what 
time it is, one of the drooling low foreheads asked his partner what 
time is it, so he could go pick up his new issue of gentlemens 
quarterly. The drooling fellow checked his Rolex and responded, its 
1:44 pm. These fellows would have surely have been aware and watched 
the environment for constant feedback on how to cope and surive and 
learn something of the the situation, lets suspend our belief in 
time for a moment, and say that it doesnt exist, let say we had a 
square of nine, and we noticed that the seasonal time periods are so 
close the gann square that we cannot ignore these time periods. 
Geometry says that any circle no matter how small or large contains 
360 degrees, gann always said i measure everything with the circle, 
time, price, volume, space, whatever you want, then he says i put 
the square and the triangle inside the cirlce to get important point 
for resistance for either time, price, space or anything i want, how 
come none of you see or talk about, or figure on the earthly year of 
365 days to the circle in geometry, isnt that what gann screams at 
you with the square of nine, or do you think it just a square root

--- PAGE 4 of 19 ---

calculator, do any of you understand the ratio that the square of 
nine is built and designed on ?, the SEASONS are the time periods, 
thats what the MASTER CHARTS are built on and designed upon, its 
funny how want to make things so complicated, This rotating 
geometric solid you all wonder about, is your own earth, lol. Gann 
said everything has four sides, a ceiling and a floor, if you put 
144 cells on each side, to complete the building, you would need to 
run out 864 or the six square of 144, yesterday at 1130 am time was 
sitting on the middle of the square, the emini in price was sitting 
on a .720 time price relation with the time angle, that is your 
second circle, and its the fifth square of 144, the building is 
still under construction, you guys and ladies have much more math 
abilitiy than myself, my math skills are eighth grade level, but i 
dont need all that stuff, i can set any market in time and price 
correctly inside the master charts. 
 
 
In the master charts section of Ganns course, he speaks of how older 
stocks when price gets high, the swings are rapid and wide, he says 
this is because the forty five degree angles are further apart, this 
lends itself to the fact that vibratory nature of something changes 
as it gets older, that would lend itself to music theory. A number 
of years ago it was common to find those large wooden stereos in 
people houses, the kind with the turntable inside and the lifting 
top. When i was small, I used to clamp my teeth on the edge of that 
cabinet and then my bones would act as a conduit for the musical 
vibration, I have read other stories from people who described other 
kids doing the same. A deaf person could easily feel the music at a 
live show on the same basis. Music theory refers to different modes, 
such as Lydian, Phrygian, Locrian, Ionian, Dorian, Mixolydian and 
Aeolian. Some players like Carlos Santana, might be considered modal 
players because when you see him live, he can easily manipulate a 
crowd of people with tension, release, melancholy, brightness, this 
ability has something to do with a mode of playing, it appears it 
also has its origin in the way a band will comp his playing. Guitar 
players like George Benson and Wes Montgomery made a living playing 
octaves, where they strike two different strings, ie the same notes 
simultaneously, this is a very pleasing and interesting sound to the 
ear, like a marriage of sound, the notes have sympathetic resonance 
it seems. I belive the musicians term for this is, Harmonic 
Discordance. It appears as you stack the 144 squares on top of each 
other, the vibration of that particular square would change, it 
might be possible to build the 144 squares according to a diatonic 
scale, and the steps and intervals between might be a way to define 
vibration to particular numbers in the square, much the same as 
notes having their own vibration, this would lend itself to gann 
statement, the higer the prices go the faster the swings, depending 
on the position of the price and what square its in. This would be 
applicable to time angles, as numbers are numbers, if one vibrates, 
they all do. Find a all time low or high in a market, and take the 
22.5, 45, 90 points and you will see some vibrational laws at work. 
On page 169 of the master charts section Gann says, "Prices are 
governed by time and time causes prices to change and the time 
angles are the resistance to price. These are measured in hours of 
longtitude which are basic geometric angles and determine the change 
of trend" Why do the time angles of 36,45,54,72,81,84,90,108,126 
causes markets intraday to change trend, its because these time

--- PAGE 5 of 19 ---

angles are like brick walls to price when it gets there. When you 
measure time from the seasons, arent you measuring hours of 
longtitude ? and arent the basic geometric angles he speaks of the 
time angle that i speak of ? They arent if you describe the theory 
that a Gann angle must be a diagonal, but thats another story 
 
 
Below is a response…I have not included it, as its not Pure Prof…
 
 
Thats a intersting way to look at it yes, everybody sees things 
differently in their own mind, eye look at it like this, if you take 
your circle. 360 and divide it by 45 degree angles, you get eight of 
them, this is like the octagon that the martial artists use to throw 
and skeletal freeze someone. If you visualize this octagon on the 
ground with it eight even sections, these are the one eights gann 
spoke of, or for murrey math students, your eight square. Now 
visualize reaching down to the middle of the circle where all the 
lines intersect and pick it up, now the object looks different as it 
it standing up, this apex point that you picked up is your fifty 
percent point or the middle of the eights, this can be your forty 
five degree point, they all are forty five degree points, but this 
is the true gravity center of them. These price levels that the time 
angle creates can define whether the market under observation is in 
the bullish side of the square or in the bearish side, for the 
clever folks, this line of thinking can tell you where to put your 
gann fans intraday, when you know a point in space and time that is 
correctly defining the forty five degree angle, then the angles 
above and below the forty five can be the angles for the bullish and 
bearish side of the square. You can do lots of interesting things 
when you know what time angle is operating. 
 
The last time eye was in here, there was bitter discussion about 
copyright violations over some tired ass wheel of twenty four. Lets 
get on the track to some serious Do Re Mi, or perhaps Fa So La Ti 
Do. For some time now, I have had in my possession a time period 
that governs when the wheel returns to its origin. I acquired this 
from the akashic records. So then eyem thinking thinking thinking, 
did Gann operate on this same time factor, I refer you to A.S. 
Raleigh's book, Occult Geometry and Hermetic Science of Motion and 
Number, read the first page and you see that the wheel returns to 
its position, but when does this happen ? Gann made two statements 
that are the key to his trading application, the first one is, "time 
angles govern price", and the second one "Everything seeks a gravity 
center" The two laws that govern all matter are the law of 
heptaparaparshinokh and the triamazikanmo, ie, the law of seven and 
the law of three. Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti Do, an octave, monday tuesday 
wednesday thursday friday saturnsday sunsday and the repetition of 
the octave returning to the Do or monday, an octave, when twenty 
four of these octaves run out, the wheel returns to its position. 
This is 192 calendar days, THE time factor. In looking back from 
1940, our hero supreme was born on june ninth 1906, young Bobbie 
discovered his master time factor on june 19 1927, this is exactly 
7680 days from his birth, 7680 is forty octaves of 192 calendar 
days, turn to page forty and read how gann describes the WHEEL. 
Young Hero Gordon girlfriend Marie left him on june 5 1927 and 
returned August 30 1932, this is exactly 1913 days from her stage

--- PAGE 6 of 19 ---

left exit, Do you think these numbers were arbitrarily used ? ten 
octaves of 192 calendar days are 1920 days, but Gann returned her 
exactly seven days early, a Week, a diatonic octave, the law of 
seven, the law of vibration to show you the law. He chose the ten 
octaves because the number ten is the alpha and the omega, I refer 
you to Brydlovan theory of numbers, I also refer you to page seven 
and ten, and notice how Gann is again speaking of the WHEEL. Read 
professor OBJOYFUL analysis of the reason Marie left, notice his 
description of Uranus, Uranus sits 19.19 astronomical units from the 
Sun, check the position of Uranus on last date of the book, August 
30 1932, it sits at exactly 23 degrees aries, and if you use the 
circle, this would be 360 plus 23, 383 degrees, and the second 
octave of the master time factor is 384, one over, and this one is 
the ending and the beginning of the next cycle, The cycle of 192. 
Check the relationship of the 144 square to this 192, the difference 
is 48 units, hours, days, 192 is four octaves of 48, 48 days times 
24 hours is 1152, the eight square of 144 or the sixth octave of 
192, 48 hours times 60 minutes is 2880 the fifteenth octave of 192. 
Supreme commander gave the world fifteen days to respond, or 360 
hours. The earth year 365.25 divided by the time factor 192 is 
1.902, again the master repeating time factor. Now, eight days at 24 
hours is 192 hours, the first diatonic octave, and twenty four of 
these diatonic octaves is 192 calendar days, when the wheel is 
reset. 48 days times 24 hours in a day is 1152 hours, times 60 is 
69120 seconds, and this is the 360 octave of the master time factor 
192, proving up the relationship between 144 and 192, you can use 
the 144 square within the 192 CD octave. Our young hero discovered 
his time factor on 6 19 1927, Here Gann being at his cleverest, 
disguises the master time factor right in front of your EYE ballz. 
He teaches you the fib spiral first with 619, then he teaches you 
the master time factor of 192 CD, then finally teaches you the law 
of seven, ie the law of vibration. His tunnel kept pilot sleeping 
for seven days, his gas seven, on page 238 Gann discusses the law of 
three, with his positive, negative, neutral principles, the Do, FA, 
LA vibration, which deny, consolidate, and shock price levels. Gann 
sent his hero to Paris to keep him from losing his brain for thirty 
one days, 31 divided by the master time factor is 1618, he again is 
teaching you the fib spiral, which by the way is governed by the law 
of octaves in pascals triangle. Our other master guru, George Bayer 
knew the 192 day cycle, Bayer says the THING that moves the wheel is 
engraved on every violin made, go check that out, and see it is the 
moons node, the retro guy who goes backward 360 degrees every 
18.924024 days, and the 192 day cycle times 36 cycles is that moons 
node return. Knowing this time factor is only half of the gordion 
knot, I recommend you to the book Cosmic Secrets by Russell Smith, 
the best ever writtin on trading, learn the octaves and inner 
octaves, and then apply your time factor to get your gravity points 
where the price happily runs to every day without fail. At any 
moment in a markets action, it is simply moving to a gravity center 
between to stopinders on the diatonic scale, if you want the minute 
movment, calculate the minute octave, if you want the hourly 
movements caculate the hourly octaves and if you want the general 
direction of the market calculate the day time angles, is is simply 
wheels within wheels, I prefer octaves within octaves, between any 
two vibrations are inner octaves and inner octaves and inner octaves 
and inner octaves and inner octaves, Learn that book and you have 
the Gann dillemna solved. Let the hate mail Begin

--- PAGE 7 of 19 ---

Mercury I Sun 57910 87.97 7.00 0.21 -- (0) 
Venus II Sun 108200 224.70 3.39 0.01 -- (0) 
Earth III Sun 149600 365.26 0.00 0.02 - - (0) 
Mars IV Sun 227940 686.98 1.85 0.09 - - (0) 
Jupiter V Sun 778330 4332.71 1.31 0.05 -- (0) 
Saturn VI Sun 1429400 10759.50 2.49 0.06 -- (0) 
Uranus VII Sun 2870990 30685.00 0.77 0.05 Herschel 1781 (0) 
Neptune VIII Sun 4504300 60190.00 1.77 0.01 Adams(9) 1846 (0) 
Pluto IX Sun 5913520 90550 17.15 0.25 Tombaugh 1930 (0) 
 
Here is some proof the 192 cycle is valid, it appears there is some 
significane with Uranus, it is the seventh planet, giving to the law 
of vibration, also it is synodic period is seven octaves of 12 
signs, months. Also there is 18 days slippage of a perfect harmonic 
from 192 calendar days. 84 times 365.25 plus 21 days for leap give 
you 30702, 192 times 160 gives 30720, eighteen days off a perfect 
octave of 160. 2.618 plus 1 gives 3.618, the root of this number is 
1.902, this ratio is sared as it describes the diagonal of a golden 
rectangle, also it describes the side of the pyramid of Giza, the 
south furthest south angle from the top to the base. Using the 
planetary data up above, starting with mercury. Get the ratios 
between each two planets. 87.97 / 224.7 / 365.2 / 686.98 / 
4332.71 / 10759.5 / 30685 / 60190 / 90550 
 
.391, .618, .531, .158, .402, .350, .509, .667, add these numbers 
for 3.626, square root 1.904 proving the cycle validity. It proves 
up the circle, the earth year, the moon cycle, proves up a lot 
things. Notice that nine ojbects have EIGHT ratios between, once 
again the Diatonic Octave, Do, Re, Me, Fa, So, La, Ti, Do 
mercury, venus, earth, mars,jupiter, saturn, neptune, uranus, pluto. 
When you add the Son, i mean sun, perhaps Sol, Osirus, notice how 
Horus, the winged messenger, sits so close to parents, Osirus and 
Isis. If you take the reciprocal of 3.618, 1 / 3.618 you get 2763957 
Now divide that by the time factor 192, and you get 144, Ganns 
master time and price chart, the square of 12. The knowledge of the 
ancients is beyond comprehension. I recommend everybody read some of 
the builder of the CORAL CASTLE in Florida, try to figure out how 
this one hundred pound man moved over 31 tons of Coral, and overcame 
the laws of something we know nothing, Gravity, with laws we also 
know nothing about. In George Bayers four hundred years of astrology 
on page 142 and 182 he makes a couple interesting statements about 
what activates the agency in nature. Our universe makes the wildest 
science fiction look like a Dr Suess book. 
 
Poor Hero Gordon, his precious Marie giving the greasy eye to 
another fellow, causing Bobbie much of a troubled heart, making him 
punish the only one he wants, go figure that. Speaking of Masons, in 
one very old book, a young farmer asked the strange older guy, are 
you a Mason ?, the guys, yes I am, What is a Mason ?, A builder, A 
builder of what ?, A temple, A temple to what ?. If you read the 
very old books on Freemasonry, you will read paragraph after 
paragraph in the Tunnel, written word for word from these older 
books. Mr Gann certainly was in possession of very occult and 
esoteric knowledge, the way Mr Gann obtained much of this knowledge 
was not of his own intellect, although no one denies his mind was 
brilliant, this lends itself even more to the idea that Mr Gann

--- PAGE 8 of 19 ---

obtained his knowledge from the web of creation, the source if you 
will, I dont like to name it, so I wont. The information that I 
impart to you and write about, is not of my own intellect either, I 
get it from the web of creation. If this offends you, I apologize, 
if not drink deep, cause its the truth. The master charts are a a 
very cool thing when used right. First off the idea to get out of 
your head is to stop looking at those charts, plastic overlays, 
spirals charts as flat things, in your mind pick each one of them up 
with your thumb and forefinger at the very center, and LIFT it up, 
do this in your mind with every master chart you have, Give them 
Height, width, length, dimension, depth, and transparency, Lift them 
up like pyramids. Here is one idea, tape the master square of 144 up 
on your ceiling, let it hang from the ceiling, walk to the side of 
it, looking at the plastic chart from its edge, very thin now, with 
your hands reach out to either side of it, and grab it in the 
middle, pulling it out in opposite directions, now you have a ball, 
sphere, but keep the lines on this ball, the angles are now wrapped 
all around this ball. In your mind STEP inside this holographic 
sphere, and look around as your standing inside the center, and look 
out thru every angle, rotating yourself like a spinning vector, this 
is the fourth dimension of trading, now imagine the price action 
running around this holographic square of 144 converted into a 
global sphere. Here now is the missing element that I have never 
heard discussed before, When your trying to use these charts, for 
example, you need the use the master time factor that I wrote about 
previously, you can easily use ANY square, when ONCE the market 
under observation is SET in TIME correctly, when this is done, it 
does not matter what square you use, math is math. Example, square 
of 144, when you are day trading, you use hours, when 144 hours 
runs, out most people talk of returning the time back to zero, on 
the bottom left of the square, stop doing this, run the market up 
from the bottom right corner to the top right corner, when that 144 
time runs out, run the market from the top right corner to the top 
left corner, and when that runs out, run it down the fourth side 
from the top left to the bottom left or beginning, you calcuate the 
price the same way, always running the TIME around and around the 
square, from the bottom, up to the top, from the right top the to 
the left top, then back down, starting all over again. When you can 
do this correctly, you will know what those circles are for that are 
within the 144 square. This way you are advancing the market every 
twenty four hours along EACH face of the pyramid, grid by grid, 
constantly wrapping the Time as it passes thru each section of the 
pyramid, calculating the price and time squarings from the different 
SIDES of the square, this makes it a revolving sphere, which is what 
Gann developed these things. To quote from the movie, "If we live in 
gigantic spiral, and we are blueprinted from a sprial, then 
EVERYTHING we put our hands to, must be a spiral. Use your 192 
calendar count, use your 144 square within this count, and rotate 
the time count just like described above, and you will be delighted 
at what you see. 
 
Somethings are endemic to the race, such as the need to seek outside 
guidance from yourself. We seek everything everywhere outside of 
ourselves. We seek the source in a building with a cross on it. We 
seek the source from another individuals experience with it. We seek 
the source in others writings. But this source is within your own 
yard. The more you live in your vehicle body and the more ego you

--- PAGE 9 of 19 ---

generate the more separated you are from IT. The more you rely on 
your senses the more the illusion becomes. Your senses pick up only a 
small portion of the available octave for its vibrational spectrum. 
Which is the way the architect desinged it, giving us something in 
common, a particular wavelenth, change this dial and behold whats 
behind the looking glass. Seek the silence within yourself. On to the 
GAnn Meister. I have much of the Gann material, the books, the 
courses, the overlays, the hand drawn charts, all kinds of misc stuff 
along the periphery. Have you ever notice that NOWHERE does Gann talk 
in his courses and books like he speaks in his ticker digest 
interview ? These two different pieces of literature are as 
diametrically opposed as can be. Why ? Because what is in those 
courses is shortcuts designed by him for him. Leaving us in the dark, 
so lets put some white light on that. Here is my take on how Gann 
traded under observation and in the market pits perhaps, I imagine 
Gann holding a Tesla coil in his hand, a Wilhem Reich orgone 
generator attached to his a.., and a pyramid on his head. Now in his 
brain I see Faradays magnetic lines, complex regression analysis, 
fourier transforms, sine waves oscillating back and forth around a 
gravity center for bullish and bearish sentiment. Archimedes 
geometric solids rotating in three dimension inside his coconut. A 
Annunuki mother ship in a holding pattern 618 miles above him 
downloading the exact planetary relationships. A lot of folks will 
vehemently deny this statement. When Gann beat up the market in his 
thirties, he did this with a math model based on comsology of 
Ouspensky and Gurdjieff based on time angles. This celestial stuff 
came later in life with more experience and research. Remember these 
statements, "periodic undulation", "a time factor that repeats", "an 
entirely different law works on the ascension as from the 
descension", "the forces behind this motion are also under a law or 
state of vibration" "stocks are like gravity centers" "they are like 
electrons jumping orbits" "each stock has its own vibratory 
characteristic", "thus I affirm that all classes of phenomena fall 
under this law of vibration" I ask you, have any of you ever read a 
book besides the above cosmologists that have ever laid out the law 
of vibration for you ?, I doubt it, lots of books use the word 
vibration, but hardly a thorough course on what this is and how the 
model is laid out. Its music that most closely models this law. 
Pythagoras had the law and taught it. Prices simply oscillate around 
a rotating vector, ie the time angle, prices get below it, gain it, 
recover it, this is what is meant by time or price being ahead of one 
another. The idea that certain vibrations need to be shocked for the 
ascension, and certain ones need to be shocked for descension is the 
different rule Gann spoke of. Electrons have movement to a phenomena 
called spin up and spin down. It would be quite easy for Mr Gann to 
have in his head the law of octaves, and if trading he only need to 
know what time angle is operating, then simply encapsulate the market 
price in between two vibrations, then recalculate the octaves and 
there is the vibration, ie the prices that the market will bounce off 
of. All I do, is take the day time angle, and calculate the all to 
nothing octave, then calculate the two inner octaves from this. Find 
out where the market is, encapsulate the price between two 
vibrations, and from this is the Do, Re, Mi, Fi, So, La, Ti, Do. I 
have uploaded a file demonstrating this for the emini today, its a 
file called spookygravitycenters. Between the FA SO vibrations is the 
exact gravity center of the octave, and notice the price behavior at 
it, for the market to get strong its a good sign to see it shock the

--- PAGE 10 of 19 ---

SO vibration. I can calculate these prices in three minutes. Just 
riding the rock and rotating the time forward is all thats needed. 
Count out squares of 192 days from the markets first trading day and 
encapsulate the current time and apply the law of octaves as 
described in Cosmic Secrets and you will have all the tops and 
bottoms at your command. I know all of you think my antenna is bent, 
but ONE of you sometime will follow my steps, and you will say, damn, 
hes right. Here is the spooky book of the week. "The master key" by 
Mr Charles Chuck Hannell, and "Trading in the stillness" by Ricky 
Harris, and even a golden but oldie, "Torque Analysis" by Chucky 
Garrett. Let the rock roll and the conversations spin. 
 
eye dont think some people are following the foundation of what i am 
talking about. im sure some dont care either, but for those who are 
trying to get this, here is the time portion of what I do, in theory 
and application. the theory is this, 
do moonsday 
re tuesday 
mi wednesday 
fa thursday 
so friday 
la saturday 
ti sunday 
do monday 
 
most of the world conforms to this week, and we adjust our cycles to 
this divisions of night and day over a twenty four revolution of the 
earth. since there seven days of the week, this lends itself to the 
law of seven, and the diatonic scale is completed with the return of 
the eight position. since there are 24 hours in the day, we take the 
eight position at 24 hours per day, and we have the above octave 
which has 192 hours in it. This we call One octave of time, I stack 
24 of these octaves on that one octave, and this gives us 4608 hours, 
and this divided by 24 is 192 calendar days, So you ask why do you 
stack 24 octaves on this one beginning octave, for the simple reason, 
that we are here on this earth, and this is the earths cycle that we 
adjust ourselves with. so this is the theory behind the 192 cycle, 
and also with the 24 hour revolving of the earth, a lot of gann 
students are obsessed with the other planets, but were here, not 
there, sure there configurations combined with solar wind and 
magnetic force affects us, but its the earths own cyclic behavior 
that we are psychology wired up with. so then after we have run out 
192 calendar days we have run out 24 octaves of this base day of the 
week octave. the number 192 is really not as important as the 
understanding of where it comes from. the days of the week being 
seven, the hours of the day, being 24, and then twenty four octaves 
on top of this base freqeuncy of 192 hours for our base diatonic 
octave of the weekday. Which gives us 192 calendar days. this sets up 
a good time structure as it moves with the calendar, now gann counted 
calendar and trading time on his charts, and there is some truth to 
using trading hours, I can make it work to a certain extent, however 
it is not even remotely close to the power of following the calendar, 
in theory if you want to apply natural science to a market, the the 
idea of using trading hours needs to be abandoned. also when gann was 
trading the markets, the communication of the world was rather slow 
as today, and so the market participants were somewhat regular and 
predictable. But with todays global economy, incredible communication

--- PAGE 11 of 19 ---

capability and the ability to trade from any househould with internet 
capablility makes the stange attractors very chaotic and the only i 
know how to tame that is thru the law of octaves as applied from time 
angles, constantly rotating time forward when your time is correct. 
the practical application of that is obtained by using the first 
trading day of your market and then add forward 192 days which we 
assume is the return of the octave to its beginning again, and take 
the day after this day and add 192 days to that and take the next day 
after that day and add 192 again and again until your time is 
currently encapsulated inside the square of 192, you want to keep the 
squares of 192 separate from one another, do not overlap the number 
192 with the number one, separate the squares and rotate them 
forward, one by one. this is the theory and the application of what i 
have been talking about. The prices are generated from the time 
number, ie, the time angle according to the law of octaves at taught 
in cosmic secrets. most of you should be able to figure this out own 
your own, as i have given some examples of doing this, if your really 
interested i will teach you privately over a couple of days. But I 
think a good study of that book will give you the method. but let it 
be known, I have only scratched the surface of how to apply this, its 
enormously powerful, and a good thoughful application further from 
what im describing can by made by anybody, consider this, one chart 
for any day from 1 to 192 can be made permanent, and as long as your 
market is trading inside the numbers for that chart you have, you 
have a permanent accurate grid of prices for ALL TIME FOR ANY DAY OF 
ANY MARKET ,,,,,,,,,,,, FOREVER. 
 
 
all nothing octaves, your time is ascertained like this, find the 
first trading day for your market in question, i use this website. 
timeanddate.com. it does everything. add 192 days to this date, and 
from the NEXT DAY, add 192 more and follow this up till your 
current. for the emini, you can do two things, use the time count 
from the parent market, which is very accurate, or you can use the 
date of the emini start time, it also gives very accurate price 
projections, or use them both in combination to get very strong 
price projections. the theory holds that time positions give prices, 
and the balancing centers of the octaves draw prices to them. the 
clever person should also see that PRICES give the time when 
something to occure in a market, they are intimitely connected, time 
and price. page 39 in that book is basically the whole ball of wax. 
example, day today is day 110 
 
the emini is somewhere up around 1144, 
110,220,440,880,1760 
just encapsulate your price from this base frequency. 
 
DO 1760 
TI 1540 
LA 1173.3 THE ALL TO NOTHING OCTAVE, 
SO 880 
FA 586.6 
MI 440 
RE 220 
DO 0 
 
NOW, SO VIBRATIONS BECOME DO VIBRATIONS

--- PAGE 12 of 19 ---

DO 1760 
TI 1650 
LA 1466.6 
SO 1320 THE INNER SCALE 
FA 1173.3 
MI 1100 
RE 990 
DO 880 
 
 
 
NOW MI AND SO VIBRATIONS IN THIS SCALE BECOMES DO VIBRATIONS 
 
DO 1320 
TI 1292.5 
LA 1246.6 
SO 1210 THE INNER INNER SCALE 
FA 1173.3 
MI 1155 
RE 1127.5 
DO 1100 
 
NOTICE HOW THE MARKET IS TRADING BETWEEN MI AND RE TODAY, BUT LIKE I 
SAID, BETWEEN ANY TWO VIBRATIONS NO MATTER WHAT THEY ARE, ARE 
DIATONIC OCTAVES, 
 
SO HERE IS HOW WE GOT TODAYS VIBRATIONS 
 
DO 1155 
TI 1151.5 
LA 1145.8 
SO 1141.2 TODAYS FREQUENCIES, THE GRAVITY 
FA 1136.6 CENTERS 
MI 1134.3 
RE 1130.9 
DO 1127.5 
 
HINT, the more wide the octave is between do vibrations, the more 
movement you get, the smaller octaves indicate congestion trading !!! 
 
let the spinning rock do the work for you, smoke the markets, not 
the rock, and notice in ganns magic word, on page thirty eight while 
he is telling everybody to sing, chant, and VIBRATE THE 
YOD HE VAU HE, Gann even tells you to chant and sing the diatonic 
octave notes, its right there that his spooky law of vibration is 
now known to be the comsmological laws of the universe. the law of 
the enneagram. By the way Gann was a master metaphysician as 
indicated by the way he writes in that book, Gann speaks about 
light, and meditation, divine science he knew. 
 
Since you folks are dominating the conversation, lets bring some 
energy on, and this leads us to Billy Williams and his Crocodile. 
Williams says that new information is what causes market trends, ie 
strange attractors, he says that the markets are at least a seven 
dimensional animal, I mean crocodile. He says that markets are where 
they are, because that is where they are, and there is no such thing

--- PAGE 13 of 19 ---

as technical analysis. Preordained gravity centers from time angles 
might have something to say about that. Chucky Drummond says that 
there is no such thing as time, they eliminate that factor from 
there analysis, he also says that markets are framed by higher time 
periods, lower periods being dominated by the energy termination 
points of higher time frames, this is a wonderful concept and it 
appears to have much truth, since there is no such thing as time, 
but there is cyclic rotation of our earth we can take advantage of 
this new energy by following the behavior of our earth. Time seems 
to be mostly a function of our perception, our awareness needs to 
be, for time to be observed, and then the time passes very 
differently for all of us, depending on how we filter and process 
the enviroment. Chucky Drummond says that his point and line 
charting method shows were energy termination points, ie, tops and 
bottoms will occur before they occur by using certain lines drawn 
from the price bars themselves. He states that the bars themselves 
contain energy and thus have forecasting value when certain higher 
time frame configurations occur. Interesting for sure, that idea 
lends us to Kirlian photography that has shown sublte energy around 
the body for many years now. Mr Gann was one of the first to say 
that old bottoms will become future tops, and old tops will become 
future bottoms, how can this be ?, whether the elapsed time be a 
couple hours or twenty years, how can a point of energy in price, 
from the past make future traders behave in a certain way when the 
same cells are worked over ?, this lends us to this question, People 
who have lost limbs, report they still feel and see outlines of 
subtle energy where the limb used to be, How can this be ?, this 
energy must be not only be present, but it remains polarized at that 
time in space where it manifested originally. Gann theory states 
that a price level that acted as a pivot, for the rest of time spins 
out cycles of the same length in time, now imagine for a moment 
every price pivot for any market spinning out time factors forever, 
what a complex grid of energy, now imagine trying to track just the 
major ones, a task that makes no sense to try. You can see what a 
major complex lattice structure each market is. NOw Mr Gann spoke 
about markets who are moving into uncharted territory, have to work 
out the cells before they can advance, he also said the fourth time 
a market trid to break thru a grid of energy, was the time it made 
it, why is that you think ?, also Gann used the word, cells, why do 
you think he said a market has to work out the cells of uncharted 
territory, he knew it was energy spaces that needed to be worked out 
by the traders. Imagine Lewis and Clark going into uncharted 
territory, you know they were constantly taking feedback from the 
terrain and making constant adjustment and decisions from the 
environment, now once they laid tracks, and set up the psychic 
energy, the next guy and the next were easily able to duplicate the 
journey, until it was a worn path. This energy is precisely the same 
thing that is happening in the markets, the way to tame this energy, 
which is the law of vibration, is to use the law of vibration, which 
is the law of octaves, the laws of music theory. Think about why 
Gann said "time angles govern price, and the time angles are the 
resistance to price", and "these are measure in degrees of 
longtitude", ie, the rotating rock, and finally why he 
said "everything seeks a balancing center". This 192 calendar day 
cycle has 4608 hours of rotation in it, and these hours of rotation 
have also very precise gravity centers for something "to happen" 
within a market trading session. The word "everything" means

--- PAGE 14 of 19 ---

everything, so Gann said that everything that is a thing, seeks a 
balancing center. 
 
Eye used to crack up watching Hannibal and his crew bust the nutcase 
Murdock out of the mental hospital so they could go on a mission. 
Speaking of bent antennas, what I will say next will not do anything 
to ease your situation. After studying Gann for fifteen years, 
reading everything available, studying with professional traders, 
spending all my money on courses, I came to the conclusion, that 
everybody had parts of what Gann did, they could use the master time 
charts in a couple of specific ways, they did this and that, but 
nobody had the basis of what is, what it was, what its based on. I 
have meditated for a long time now, I learned how to access the delta 
level, and then I was taught how to employ white vibrational light, 
when you reach this level of meditation, your awareness of your body 
is completely gone, you are deep in the void of yourself, you are a 
ball of pulsating energy, when you can visualize and allow yourself 
to become a sponge of white vibrational light, you become immersed in 
what is a very cool, magnetic, and electric vibrational white light. 
Anyway one day in this state, I just told the universe to download 
into my brain every bit of market knowledge and information that has 
ever been in WD Ganns brain, and not only that but all information 
that has ever been about the law of vibration as applied to the 
markets. I dont have any lock on this stuff so I share it with you. 
Take a look at Mr Gann, does he seem like a good time Charlie to 
you ?, does he seem like the kind of guy who liked everybody he met, 
treated everybody great, he looks to me like the kind of guy who 
didnt take shit from anybody, and probably didnt like to be around 
people all the time. In his books he flat out states, that his 
knowledge of the law of vibration as applied to the markets is HIS, 
and would not be divulged, ever. He states that since he was in a 
position to help others with his master time factor and vibrational 
laws he offered a service to help people make sound investments. For 
anybody who is interested I want to explain what I mean about "the 
grid", let me say this, there are many ways to beat the market, once 
you can establish one way, you just exploit that until your wealthy. 
What I explain to you is the principle of the gann squares, namely 
the one called the master 144 price and time chart, I can use the 
square of nine, but that is a bit different, and I dont like it for 
this discussion. Gann called that square his master time and price 
chart, with the year 1955 on it, it has lots of green timing angles, 
the only one I have ever seen that is any good are made by Bill 
Mclaren. I am going to set up in your mind a model so you can 
envision what is happening with those squares, Imagine a globe, now 
heat shrink the plastic 144 overylay completely around that globe, to 
where this is a perfect fit and no slack, the grid is now wrapped up 
in perfect symetry around the sphere. Now make the the sphere 
holographic and transparent, and make it have depth, now imagine 
yourself sitting in front of this rotating sphere with all the grid 
lines on it, holographic. Now that we have that picture, try this, 
imagine this globe being solid in front of you, rotating like the 
earth does, now we are going to watch a market session unfold on this 
ball, the bell rings and out opens up section of 6.75 hours of space 
on this grid, the price inside this square according to where its at 
the time of the market session. This is the FACE OF THE GRID that is 
in operation for that market duration. The lines and angles only on 
that particular grid session dominate and control that sessions price

--- PAGE 15 of 19 ---

activity, its a unique roller coaster. The market closes, the face of 
the grid closes up, and the ball returns to normall with no windows 
open, the earth moves forward and the ball moves around. 24 hours 
elapsed of earth rotation, and the market opens up again, and 
immediately a new section of the grid appears, 6.75 hours of unique 
angle configuration with the price encapsulated in it. This is the 
face of this new session, and these angles dominate the price action. 
Every day a new piece of the grid opens up for that market session, 
so here is what Im saying, only a SWEEPING piece of grid dis-covers 
the market action for the duration of trading time. Just a sweeping 
pass of that very busy and complex grid. The way to mimick four 
dimensional price time trading is to rotate your market around and 
around the gann grid, each side at one time being the BOTTOM 
according to which square your in, you advance 24 hours across the 
grid every day, all days, according to the 192 master time factor, I 
have a square of 192, or you can use that 144 square. This way your 
just using a conical slice or section of the grid as it passes over 
and over and around the ball, but because our Gann square is flat, we 
mimick this four dimensional rotating ball describe above by doing 
what I just described. This leads me talk about this emini market 
today, This time period of 4608 hours has time gravity centers in it, 
an this is what happens, like today, when the TIME VIBRATIONS DO NOT 
FALL WITH THE TRADING SESSION the market gets flat, like today the 
first hour was a time gravity point, and the next gravity point fell 
out past the 6.75 trading session. So the market got going for a 
while but the energy was gone, and the market meandered around the 
gravity center, now what is happening is this, the TIME VIBRATIONS 
ENERGIZE the trading participants, the price frequencies are 
generated from the time angles, but the time vibrations themselves 
are the gas for the traders. When you have two or three good shocks 
of time vibrations WITHIN THE TRADING SESSION, this is what makes the 
moves good and fast, liquid, and fluid. Again, so you can follow what 
im saying, ONLY A SECTION OF THE GRID PASSES THRU EACH TRADING 
SESSION, THIS IS TRUE FOR TIME AND PRICE. Now perhaps you understand 
why the strange attractors are so wild, because the market opens up 
on a new face of the structure, the gann grid, the enneagram, the 
sacred lines of geometry, which are ALL encapsulated on the master 
time and price chart. Here is what Gann would have developed if he 
was born in the age of the integrated circuit, the final frontier, 
gann was a proponent of being progressive, as he said the man who 
does not continue to learn and study and try new things, will not 
make a success, because he refuses to admit he does not know all 
there is to know, so being progressive is good, and Gann was 
progressive, as you see he made four dimensional model of a plastic 
chart. The computer programmer who can perform this miracle of a 
three dimensional holographic sphere, rotating, constantly in front 
of you, with all the master time and price times lines on it, 
revolving in and in front of you, passing away from you and going 
round and round, so you constantly see the face of the grid that is 
ACTIVE for the session under consideration will have in their 
possession the most sophisticated and accurate trading model for time 
and price analysis that has every come down the pike from the 
spiritual realm. It would rotate at one degree every four minutes, or 
whatevery time speed you wanted it at, and the price would fall and 
rise according to the angles in operation for the specified period, 
this would all be done with the 192 calendar period, and the 4608 
time gravity centers would be on the grid, the octaves frequencies

--- PAGE 16 of 19 ---

would be lit up, this way you would know instantly which TIME 
VIBRATIONS AND WHICH PRICE VIBRATIONS ARE ACTIVE FOR THE SWEEP OF THE 
GRID FOR THE MARKET SESSION. You could be in a position over the 
market with such power, because you will never have to chase it, you 
will know when the press the market and when to leave it alone. 
Madness I tell you, but truthfull madness. Remember Gann said, the 
man who does not change his mind, will soon have no change to mind. 
Profits are kind of crazy with a spooky little price like you !! 
Try to get this inside of your mind, The time and price grids are 
PERMANENT, the only thing that makes them seem different is the TIME 
position, where is IT, in the procession, this is repetition in 
perfection, but it hides itself because of the TIME factor. 
Everything is going this time and price grid, but its the difference 
in the time position that makes it appear different. 
 
The book how to make profits on commodities should have been named, 
How i use the law of octaves in combination with time angles to get 
very accurate buy and sells. This post should gain me even some more 
unpopularity, and the reason is because what Im showing you is 
anticlimactic in a sense, because the search is over, the law of 
vibration is now exposed for what it really is, I have showed you 
how to square price and time with the master charts, what the true 
forty five degree angles really are, how history repeats on a grid 
of permanent resistance points for time and price. I have shown you 
in real time how the market absolutely goes to predetermined 
mathematical points of force even before the traders take it there. 
Eye suspect some of you who follow my posts and work,realize that 
indeed I am showing you how Mr Gann made 286 trades with 264 trades 
being profitable. Cause that is exactly what Im showing you, you 
will never see this work duplicated anywhere, unless of course you 
do it yourself. This is the first time that the law of vibration has 
been demonstrated in print and in real time as exactly Mr Gann 
employed and deployed it. In that book HOw to make profits, on page 
twenty four, the Gannster says "nature balances everything", and he 
says it on page twenty four, Screaming at you, that the rotating 
rock and its 24 hour repititive cycle is the KEY to it all. on page 
30 the Gannster makes a comment about the square of nine and how our 
earth year falls along the circle of geometry, he alludes to the 
Masonic royal cross, the heavenly passing of the sun shocking the 
seasons. Read page 34 and see how Gann tells you about Faradys 
mathematical points of force, and all tops and bottoms are in 
relation to some PREVIOUS HIGH OR LOW, LOL, this is not exactly 
true. Although it is when you do not ride the rock and turn the 
wheel. On page 34 under the title of Range of Fluctuations, GAnn 
made a mockery of his true law of vibration and gave his readers a 
very poor cheap imitation of the LAW. Dividing a range by the number 
eight is the most ridiculous thing, but Gann was not going to give 
it up. The entire Murrey Math system is primarily based on the 
paragraph right there, taking a perfect fractal and making octave 
shift changes as it moves thru its harmonic intervals, however with 
one HUGE mistake, it does not apply and take into consideration the 
retardation within the diatonic scale that occurs between the Mi Fa 
and Ti DO vibrations, and of course they do not have the 192 day 
calendar cycle. On page 36 mr Gann speak of the whole ball of wax 
right there, giving up the FA SO vibrations the true gravity center, 
and he also makes reference of the 2/3 or .666666666666 being the 
position between vibrations that takes it to the next vibration. On

--- PAGE 17 of 19 ---

page 37 mr Gann gives up one of the most Fantastic and failsafe ways 
to nail price levels, especially because he knew that price levels 
were preodained. on page 38 he makes a tremendous statement about 
the gravity center and he also uses the ROCK as his example, he also 
gave up the key in the magic word on page 38, where he tells you use 
the notes DO, RE, MI. On page 42 and 43 mr Gann talks about the Law 
of the Trines, the Forces of the Diatonic scale, Do, FA, LA, the 
positive negative and neutral principles of the Universe. Take a 
good look at the book, and what is all about, nothing but Time 
angles, and resistance levels, and gravity centers, but he tells you 
that you have to keep a record of all the activity to keep informed 
about levels from the past, as they are going to repeat, which is 
true, he fails to tell you that you only need to use the master time 
factor and apply the laws of vibration as you ride the rock and spin 
the wheel forward. By doing this you automatically dis-cover the 
price levels that must be shocked again as the wheel moves past the 
same point it has in the past, LOL, in the words of Russell 
Smith, "shocking isnt it", You the man Russell, you the man. Go to 
page 32 and read the sentence by Gann. "You must apply time cycles 
and time rules" he didnt you should, or it helps, he said 
you "must". But then he didnt tell you how to do that did he ?. Like 
I said before, there is not such thing as time, there is only rock 
rotation in longtitude and revolution. Imagine the grand architect 
holding billions of worlds, billions of life forms, billions of 
years, billions of galaxies in his I M A G E ination, all passing in 
his mind like a blink our eyes, and looks my way and says, "what 
time you got buddy", and I say why its 1:44 pm, and he says, "yeah 
right", lol. Take care you all 
 
 
Or Commander Cody says "never argue with a fool, cause he might be 
doing the same thing". The ever cryptic Gannster, most clever 
indeed, but perhaps not clever enough for the trained eye ball. Gann 
being schooled in the Kabbalistic, Hermetic, and Rosy Cross 
philosophy adopted the code and smybolic writing style of the priest 
craft throughout history. In Ganns magic word he is teaching you 
about sympathetic resonance as he speaks about your voice sending 
its wants and desires throughout the universe when you ring the 
sacred word "Jehovah", He tells you that this word rings "three" 
sylablles, and contains "seven" letters. Here he is trying to teach 
you the law of vibration with law of seven and three. The very laws 
you are learning in Cosmic Secrets. He speaks much of RADIO and how 
is it possible to send stuff thru air without being able to see it. 
Then he reminds you to not rely on your own EYE BALLZ so much, 
because that sensory organ is quite deceptive at times as to the 
truth of our universe. He speaks of illusions, pranic breathing, and 
mostly the law of correspondence, ie "as above so below". Now I know 
lots of you who read what eye right, say to yourselves "this 
harmonic guy kind of weird, talk kinda crazy, say goofy things", in 
your mind your saying to yourselves "can this 192 day calendar cycle 
be the master factor or is this guys antenna just seriously bent ?" 
How bout we bend the space time continuum and turn to page 192 in 
how to make profits, and read under time cycles, We look at Gann 
telling us to watch for the six and seven months for a change of 
trend, now this is kinda vague, but its not so vague when you 
consider the half point between six and seven months is very close

--- PAGE 18 of 19 ---

to 192 days. Now the Gann mann wrote a book called the wall street 
stock selector, now turn to page 192 in that book and I will quote 
the gannster here "CURTISS WRIGHT, THE TWO LEADING COMPANIES IN THE 
BUSINESS WERE WRIGHT AND CURTISS. CURTISS MADE EXTREME LOW IN AUGUST 
1921 WHEN IT SOLD AT 1 1/8. THEN ADVANCED TO EXTREME HIGH IN MAY, 
1928 WHEN IT SOLD AT 192 3/4. LATER IT WAS CONSOLIDATED WITH WRIGHT 
AEROPLANE COMPANY. THE WRIGHT BROTHERS BUILT THE FIRST AIRPLANE IN 
THE UNITED STATES AND MADE THE FIRST SUCCESSFUL FLIGHT" #$%$&*$@#! 
$$##@#^&%*^$#@##$%&&^^%%, are you friggin kiddin me, a reference on 
page 192 with a stock that went from 1 to 192, lol. Hmmmmmmmmm, who 
was these brothers who had eagles in there heart ?, but of course 
they was one of the first "tunnelers thru the air". Gann was in love 
with this stock called "radio", he talks about it with great 
affection saying it will be a leader again. This stock accurately 
describes the law of vibration. So Gann is very sympathetic with it, 
he speaks about it the way a sports better bets with his heart, 
knowing full well his team has no chance to win. You folks are going 
to make so much snap buying and selling these gravity centers your 
going to be surrounded with cement ponds and movie starz. 
 
Yes there are lines of force that are active during the market 
session. These are gotten from the Gann Grids, ie squares, I use the 
square of 192, however the 144 is also valid. The reasoning why they 
are valid is because we base everything on 24 hours of revolution, 
we only stack 24, 48, 96, 120, 144, 168, 192, and so into infinity, 
we never would use a fraction of a day, because that would throw off 
our price frequencies. The reasoning behind this is that we want to 
be dynamic and we want real time calculations, we want to ride the 
rock forward. For whatever market you like and whatever exchange it 
resides at is irrelavant. When that market started, at that point in 
time a mathematical signature was created, a vibration was set up 
that forever puts out a frequency that is based on 24 hour harmonics 
from that base vibration. Now back to those gann grids you asked 
about. Every day for the market session a section of the grid is 
active, this is what Gann said when these angles are "active", You 
can use the 144 grid as it is alignment with the 24 hour frequency, 
or you can use the 192 grid which is the master repeating time 
factor. Let me digress for a moment and tell you why the grids are 
as they are. Papus wrote a book called "the tarot of the bohemians" 
he says its the absolute key to occult science, he was a very 
learned initiate. He says that the gypsies used the tarot to divine 
the future with these cards, the reasoning behind these cards is 
they contain everything that is in the collective unconscious of 
mankind. They are archetypal symbology of the nature of everything. 
Now back to these gann grids, these grids are a combination of 
sacred geometry, they contain the enneagram, they contain circles, 
triangles, squares, they are a conglomaration of all these ideas and 
mathematical lines of force. In essence they are archetypal 
symbology of trading patterns, traders psyche for a given point in 
space and time. This is why nobody can use them correctly is for 
that reason, they cannnot set them in time correctly. Now the charts 
are so busy, that you can put one on a high or low and you see it 
square it out, but its mostly hit and miss. In my earlier post I 
spoke of how to use them in the fourth dimension of trading, how to 
mimick that idea. So to answer your question, Yes we have the law of 
octaves which is the price frequencies I show on the chart, the gann 
grids show the active lines, and you could draw them on the chart, I

--- PAGE 19 of 19 ---

just look at the section that is active and get an idea as to what 
lines are dominating, ist just a companion to the law of octaves. 
NOw on to your question about time and price squaring, yes price and 
time square up all the time, this happens in a number of different 
ways, the one i demonstrated was one where the price and time were 
in equilibrium, they were the same number, this happens often, but 
it also reverse the trend on other numbers and configurations, this 
is what Gann said when he said, I use mathematical sequencing, as 
there are relationships between points of squarings. On to your time 
question, yes the times of when the highs and lows can be gotten 
also, this is just done with the law of octaves. The time when 
something is going to happen is just another balancing act or center 
that is calculated from ....... I have given hints as to how this 
id done in my charts and posts. Reread my post and more will come to 
you. I have laid down the basic idead as to how to apply the law of 
vibration to a market, the more advanced theory and application will 
only be imparted on a one to one basis, where I can show you over 
many hours and charts how the price and time squares up, how to use 
the master charts, how to get the time balancing centers and more, 
in essence all that I know. Well now all this good vibrational talk 
gears me up for a listen to the beach boys classic rock tune. Light 
speed everybody