================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 321139539-20-Years-of-Studying-Gann.pdf
Total Pages: 27
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 27 ---

“20 YEARS OF STUDYING GANN” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This work contains no copyright and may be freely and publicly distributed.

--- PAGE 2 of 27 ---

INTRO 
 
     While the idea of doing this work had been crawling around in my head for many months, it was June 
9 of 2016 at 4:04 pm that I committed it to paper, later it will be typed. It wasn’t until the next day that I 
realized it was started on Robert Gordon’s 110th birthday (An important number). If you do not know 
who Robert Gordon is, you will by the time you finish reading this.  
     The sole purpose of this work is to help those on their quest to understand the methods and 
philosophy of W.D. Gann, a legendary trader from the early 20th century.  I have heard from many that 
have 10-15 years in studying Gann and they can’t yet even forecast consistently. This work will address 
the issues I feel that may be stopping them.  
     Luther Jensen, George Bayer and W.D. Gann could all accurately forecast financial markets. W.D. 
Gann made annual forecasts, Luther Jensen made quarterly forecasts and George Bayer made monthly 
forecasts. All were just as accurate as each other. The question is HOW? They all found the cause of the 
market movements (cycles) and used them to forecast. This truly is step one. For it’s the correct cycles 
that allows one to forecast price. Without the correct cycles price cannot be forecasted and any 
geometry is relatively useless; we will deal with this more in depth in this work.  
 
     By definition I am a market trader/researcher and make no pretense at being a writer. This work is 
meant to instruct; it is not meant to be a literary super novel.  
 
     This writing is based on 20 years of researching W.D. Gann while working with some of the most 
brilliant people on the planet. 19 years of studying W. D. Gann’s book “The Tunnel Thru the Air” and 17, 
going on 18 years of helping others in this field.  
 
     It is my sincere intent that this work aids you on your quest to understand the methods of W. D. 
Gann.

--- PAGE 3 of 27 ---

PHASE 1:    BEGINNINGS 
     There I was, 11 years old, staring at the stock prices in the daily newspaper sensing and feeling the 
energy, wanting to get involved.  As fate would have it a year later I was put on a prescription drug for 
the control of asthma. While the drug would take away my asthma it also shut down metabolism of 
vitamin B6 in the liver leading to a mental fogginess which would last 12 years.  
     It was at the age of 24 I flushed that prescription down the toilet, despite my doctor’s words that I 
could die if I got off the medication. When my liver started metabolizing B6 I literally woke up and things 
became clear again.  
     At the time I was in college and began asking myself what I really wanted to do with my life. I 
remembered back to when I was younger and realized my TRUE passion was for financial markets. That 
is where the action is and deep down on an intuitive level I knew its where I had to be.  
     I had taken many college courses at the time and gotten into arguments with some of the professors. 
I recall my business administrator teacher instructing the class on how to incorporate, which I had 
already did over a year earlier. In fact, I had owned many businesses before my 25th birthday. My 
problem which I voiced in class was the way the professor was teaching it. One would pay a lot of 
unnecessary taxes. In the state I lived in, issuing NO-PAR stock would later circumvent, legally, those 
taxes. See, on stock one has to pay taxes on the amount. NO-PAR is equal to zero, so one pays no taxes. 
The professor, with NO experience in REAL business, squeaked me by with a D for the class, although I 
had YEARS of hands on business administrative experience! Something was wrong!  
     Later I had developed a good rapport with an English Professor. She would allow me to teach certain 
aspects of the class, which I found thrilling. Then one day I was turning in my test, and she looked up and 
said “Can I ask you a question; what are you doing here?” shocked, I searched for the right words but 
admit I was confused. She then followed with “This college is doing nothing for you, you belong at 
Harvard or Yale.” I smiled and left college that day never to return. Although I don’t recall her name her 
face after several decades is fresh in my mind. I decided that day to devote my life to financial markets 
and not waste another second on college… Sometimes people show up, when we are on our paths, as 
“unexpected” guides. To that teacher I want to say thank you for the best information I ever learned in 
college! It would be decades later that I would learn where our education really comes from and what it 
is designed to do.  
     I got my first library card in my mid 20’s and started to go regularly.  Checking out the maximum 
amount each time. I began reading variously about financial markets and related matters. In no time I 
had exhausted the local library’s 60 + books on the subject. I acquired the usual subscriptions; Forbes, 
WSJ, Barons, Value line etc. I began acquiring books from financial market traders like Jesse Livermore 
and Benjamin Graham along with more current traders.  
     I began trading mutual funds primarily tech funds and pocketing 40-60% gains which at the time I 
thought was impressive. Finally, it was time to take the plunge and begin trading actual stocks. I started 
out with a cheap charting software that came packaged with other software in the back of a book, if 
memory serves me correctly it was entitled, Global Investing. Metastock was also included in the back of 
the book. Before long I fell in love with Metastock and switched over, that was back when they were 
awesome, decades later I would have to change again.

--- PAGE 4 of 27 ---

Metastock, at that time, came with something called “Gann Angles” which was OK, but geometry was 
never my thing. It would be awhile before I would find out that geometry is only say 10% of Gann’s 
system, more on this later.  
 
PHASE 2: HIGHS AND LOWS 
     I would say in my mid to late 20’s I was a value investor, and in a rising market as long as the rise 
continues, its easy money. While I was finishing up my “library days” I ran into the Beardstown Ladies 
who were in disguise. At that time, they were hounded by people wanting to know stock picks, which is 
why they were in disguise. The method they used was also value investing. I happened to be at the 
Xerox machine at the same time as one of them so I said in a soft low tone “you are with the 
Beardstown Investment Ladies?” Shocked she looked at me, sizing me up and down for a second, then 
smiling she stated “you are very smart.” She then showed me what she was Xeroxing. It was MBNA 
which was later acquired by Bank of America in 2006. To answer a question, you may have, yes the stock 
did go up after she told me about it! 
     In order to trade I had to buy a computer and open an E*TRADE account, thus bypassing the brokers. 
E*TRADE at the time was DOS, with a clunky call in feature. Overall I would say I had above average 
profits from the value investing and had definitely caught the trading fever. Never one to remain idle I 
then began studying stock options. Unique little things that allow one to use leverage. After reading all 
the books I could get my hands on I developed over a few years a simple trading strategy, which I will 
share with you here. First you have to know what your market is going to do, is it going up or down? 
Let’s say down, so in this case you would want to do puts. Your stock is selling at 92, my system is to buy 
the puts just outside the money, NEVER in the money. So I would buy puts with at least 3 weeks of life 
left and in this case, the strike price would be 90 (just outside the money). I said 3 weeks of life left, as a 
minimum, but not over 5 weeks, for me that has always been my “sweet spot”. Over the year’s people 
have asked me about different options, strategies and models. My response has consistently been; 
“Those are for people who do not know the direction the market is going.” Back then though, in my mid 
20’s, I did not have this options strategy. Options, like so many other thinks in life require experience, 
which of course requires time and I had been doing light trading in them. I then took the plunge on 
CSCC, Cascade Communications, buying about 10,000 dollars’ worth of PUTS far out of the money. The 
PUTS were bought on a Thursday and Friday. Saturday night I began getting sick with some sort of 
stomach flu. I was bed ridden with it Sunday and Monday. On Tuesday I mustered enough energy to get 
out of bed and check on my options. My 10,000 was down to under 2000. But, and this is key, Monday 
the options had been up to almost 100,000! What had happened was bad news had come out Monday 
morning and Cascade shot down 20! Then the company came out Tuesday morning and corrected the 
earlier version! Most people would view this as “bad luck”, which in reality does not exist. In fact it 
would take me about a decade to realize the natural law which had truly caused me to loose that trade. 
Each trader has a trading frequency and when he/she steps out of that frequency range by putting on 
oversized trades, he/she will usually, almost always, loose. More on this later.  
     I was 28 when I did the Cascade trade. It would be 2 years before I placed my next trade as I had lost 
my nerve.

--- PAGE 5 of 27 ---

It was the year before this trade that I had learned about my uncle’s success. To make a long story 
short I also learned Gann was the way to go. My first books arrived simultaneously 19 years ago. The 
Tunnel Thru The Air by W.D. Gann and Astro-Cycles and Speculative Markets by Luther Jensen. Little did 
I know it at the time but these books would change my life forever, taking me to places I once would 
have considered unimaginable. A decade later I would discover that Luther Jensen worked for Gann 
from about 1930 to Gann’s death in 1955, at which time he took a break for a couple of years then 
worked for a Wall Street firm in the 1960’s. Jensen actually died at his type writer. He was a very prolific 
writer/researcher and yet in the public Domaine there remains less than 10 writings. This does not 
include his quarterly forecasts in the “Astrological – Bullitina.” Jensen died in 1980 and I was able to 
obtain private correspondence between him and the guy that talked him into writing his book. One has 
to wonder though, where all the other typed information went.  
     I knew when I received the two books (Tunnel and ACSM) that I was looking at TRUTH and I also knew 
deep down, on an intuitive level that I was also looking at many years at research. I must admit, like so 
many other the reason I looked Gann up was for the money. What I later found was even more 
important – FAR more important.  
     I knew that astrology (more accurately a fusion of astrology and astronomy) was important along 
with numerology in solving for the knowledge contained in the book of Tunnel.  
     Because both Gann and Jensen had passed away by the late 1990’s I then began a search for modern 
day Gann Traders that were still breathing oxygen. That is when I found the works of a guy we will call 
Geometry George. I studied those works day and night… literally I recall looking up and the sun was out, 
looking back up and it was dark, then looking back up and the sun was out. Days seemed to roll 
together. After about a year and half I finally contacted the author figuring I must be stupid because I 
could NOT make it work with any consistency. The author then pointed me to a place where people 
were coming together to meet and discuss the authors work. There must have been a hundred people 
there and not one could get any of it working. That is when I realized it wasn’t me or my disdain for 
anything geometry. There was people there that were masters of geometry and could not forecast at all. 
I would later find out, through a mentor that “some people spend their entire lives making Gann 
difficult.” You see, here is the rub; Gann is not difficult at all, in fact it’s EASY, it’s just well hidden! A 
question could be, in looking back, am I upset about the money I spent on Geometry Georges books? 
Absolutely not. It was at the time the logical next step on my PATH. Gann is a Path that must take 
YEARS. Only those that put in the dedication will succeed. The reason for this is Gann must be learned in 
layers over time. Like I could write the exact methodology for forecasting inversions right here. Few if 
any would know what I was saying, fewer still would be able to apply it.  
     In talking about the late 90s I also want to add something that some of you can relate to. I had lost 
my trading nerve (Cascade options trade) and was deep into research. Everyone thought I was crazy, 
always researching. They thought because I had only a part time job, which would enable me to 
research, that I was somehow dodging life and dodging my responsibilities. After all, who researches 
outside of college, who studies outside college? Back in those days it was only my wife who saw my 
dream, who saw my vision and who understood. Two books not related to Gann that really helped me 
through that time are by Mark Fisher. “The Instant Millionaire” and “The Millionaires Secrets: Life 
Lessons in Wisdom and Wealth.”

--- PAGE 6 of 27 ---

I am writing this part of this work in Jekyll Island, Georgia, at times looking out over the ocean. The 
sand here reminds me of Australia’s Gold Coast, same color and feel, with less waves. Jekyll Island is 
more reclusive, less people and more remote than Wrightsville Beach thus a great place to write one’s 
thoughts! 
     In this work I will suggest books on various topics. There is no affiliation, as these are all books that 
have helped me and others succeed. If a book is mentioned I encourage you very strongly to acquire it 
and have a read through it.  
     Losing most of my trading capital really crushed my ego. There I was having left college to fulfill my 
dream only to fail through making stupid trading decisions and getting a strange flu. I think that would 
have permanently crushed many but in my case it made me even more determined to succeed. I really 
had no choice, my back was against the wall. It was either follow my passion or go get that “desk job” 
my parents were advocates of. The thought of abandoning my passion was almost too much to bear, so I 
pressed on. I could not have lived with myself had I left the field of financial markets. Later I found out 
that Gann himself had a rough go when he was starting out several times losing all his capital.  
     It was around age 31-32 that I really lucked out. I found someone who was out there helping others 
AND could demonstrate they really knew what they were talking about. That was my first, not my last, 
encounter with someone that really knew. It was, through that, I found out the planetary cycles are cool 
but there is this level above that called the “Law of Vibration” that researchers need to work towards. Of 
course an arrow only finds its mark when it is aimed through an end goal (target). I had not really been 
able to aim my arrow as I was unsure of the real end goal. That all changed that year. I was shown 
exactly, in advance, what it (L.O.V.) could do. I was also shown that a real Gann trader could make a 
return of thousands of percent a year (The proof Gann was doing this is in many testimonials who talked 
about his incredible ability to compound money---even auditors talked about this). I was being shown 
this from people who had studied for years and were not selling anything! More importantly it was 
emphasized to me that Gann wanted people to spend a decade working on it before they get it. At first I 
could not fathom that concept, later I would learn it was because Gann knew the natural law that 
governed it. Here it is explained, below.  
     In simple terms we reap what we sow. This law cannot be circumvented, although at times it takes 
many years to catch up and have an effect, it will always!  Given that, in a nutshell, if we spend our time 
in research and study we are sowing the seeds for our future. If we enter this field by begging someone 
to give us all the answers, we will fail. Why? Because we are attempting to reap what others have 
sowed. This is an attempt to get something for nothing and thus these people generally wind up with 
nothing for something. This is why Gann did not share his methods with his son, John. Had he given his 
methods to his son he would have received something for nothing. The universe DEMANDS payment. 
Nothing and I mean nothing is ever free.  
     Let’s say a thief breaks into a house and steals 6000 worth of equipment. And let’s say this thief is 
never caught. The universe will demand 10 times this amount! So years down the road the thief gets 
into a car accident and the medical bills total $58,750 dollars. The thief wont realize the connection 
between what he stole and what he spent on medical bills, so he will undoubtedly never discover the 
natural law. The Bible talks about this in the form of tithes. Giving away 10% will yield you 10x down the 
road. Always remember the universe demands payment. Gann figured that 10 years of research was

--- PAGE 7 of 27 ---

enough to square it, for a Gann Trader. This concept, presented in this paragraph is incredibly important 
to fully understand!   
     Many are drawn to the field because they see quick riches. They do not realize in this universe, 
operating off of very specific laws, there is no such thing. A price must be paid in advance through 
research and time or it will be extracted through natural law, down the road.  
     It was also around this time age 31-32 that I met one of my best friends. We will call him PA as he has 
been like a father to me in this field, at times. PA was trading at one of Australia’s leading banks. He was 
trading a multibillion dollar account, at the time. When he first came to visit me he told me that 
someday I would be taking 60,000 dollar vacations and that money would seem like monopoly money. 
Admittedly, at that time, I thought what he was saying was unfathomable.  
      
PHASE 3: THE WILD WEST 
     It was around age 31-32 that I was made aware of the fact that Gann put all his methods in the book; 
“The Tunnel Thru the Air”. I mean I always knew it was important but did not realize it was the major 
key. I was also informed I would need the market data, from that era, to solve it. Later I would find out 
this is absolutely true. I do not see how it is possible to solve Tunnel without the data, maybe it is, I just 
don’t see how.  We will be dealing with the book in far greater detail, very soon, but wanted to leave 
you with the age of 33; I had probably read Tunnel cover to cover about 10 times and I just didn’t get it, I 
mean it was important yes, I got that, but what did it really contain? To be really honest I had no damn 
idea. Many people entered my life around this time, one would wind up being a master Tunnel decoder.  
     In the 70’s and 80’s, before the internet, it was very difficult to learn Gann because no one was really 
around to tell people “Hey! Study the Tunnel Book!” So many were left on their own. Those that knew 
the methods were tucked away, happily trading. You see, the realization that the truth is in the book 
Tunnel is fundamental, without that, one is lost within the field. In the 70’s and 80’s there was really no 
one around saying that. 
     For me a benefit of trading markets was that I did not have to deal with people, it would be just me, 
the computer and market profits. I wound up helping others and in all honesty learning about something 
I never dreamt I would; PEOPLE! Little did I know at the time that in dealing with others I would find out 
exactly what stops many from succeeding. Over the years I have heard every excuse known to man and 
no I won’t be listing them here…It all boils down to INCORRECT MINDSET. Studying Gann requires a 
sustained effort lasting years. This runs counter to the current society’s attitude of reaping with little 
sowing. Somewhere along the way we need to pick up success training if we are really going to succeed 
at anything. This training has been left out of the traditional curriculum. Now I know what you are 
thinking; “OK so this writer is going to teach me how to be successful.” My response to that would be 
no, I am not, and the reason is there are far better teachers out there. One of the best, by far, is 
Napoleon Hill. You have probably heard of the book “Think and Grow Rich.” What you may not know is 
that “think and Grow Rich” is actually advertising for the book “Law of Success in 16 Lessons.” (If we are 
going to succeed we must learn about the Laws that govern this universe).  You have heard it before and 
you will hear it again This universe is based on very definitive Laws, success itself is based on laws. If you 
are unfamiliar with the Laws, success will allude you.

--- PAGE 8 of 27 ---

I am a big fan of audible.com, now an Amazon company. Audio books can be listened to at various 
times when reading would not work, like when driving a car. Given that, get the audio file: The Science 
of Personal Achievement” by Napoleon Hill.  
     A good trader friend of mine also felt the book “Outwitting the Devil” by Napoleon Hill, changed his 
life for the better so it is also mentioned here.  
     Here is the rub. So many come to study Gann because they feel that money will make them happy. 
This brings up a conversation I had with PA.  I had asked him if most of the traders up in that bank where 
multimillionaires and he replied emphatically “Yes”. I then asked him how many of those 
multimillionaires were truly happy. He kind of contorted, then said in a soft but firm voice “very, very 
few.” You see, money is like a treadmill, the more you acquire the more you want. If you are making 
100k a year, making an income of a million appears like a good goal to have. What happens is that 1 
million won’t change the fundamental thinking. You will have more expensive things, but the debt and 
headaches will also be there, magnified!  
     Way back in my early 20’s I ran across a saying that has stuck with me even to this day. It goes 
something like this “I chased the goddess at money and she would not smile on me, I tried and tried. I 
then gave up and began to chase the goddess of knowledge, this made the goddess of money jealous, 
and then she smiled on me.”  What most do not know is that Gann did not spend his time chasing 
money, he spent it chasing knowledge. Wealth always follows knowledge.  
     It was about this time that I started to acquire the market data for the 1920’s and 1930’s that is 
needed for Tunnel. In some cases, this involved me and my friends pain stakingly searching through 
microfilm to get the daily high and low daily data. It goes a lot faster if you have people helping you. 
Another thing we had did was track down the magazine Luther Jensen (Gann’s Assistant) had written in 
from the early 1930’s to 1955 called “Astrological Bullitina”. We found this to contain additional 
information above and beyond what can be found in his book “Astro-Cycles and Speculative Markets” 
which we now call ACSM for short.  
     Meanwhile the revolving door of people entering and exiting my life for various reasons became 
much faster, more people coming and some leaving. One of these individuals, whom we will call 
“Cowboy Carl” was taking page numbers and looking for codes in Tunnel. Granted there are some there 
for sure, but the key is you have to work them a certain way. Like as an example around page 225 in 
Tunnel there is a cycle described, and that is not coincidence. Now Cowboy Carl, he seemed to have his 
own method which was pure number. He had informed me that his wife would not permit him to deal 
with any Astro at all. (This makes Gann almost impossible to understand). He would write me all these 
page numbers and crazy connections that did not make any damn sense. Like if I take my shoe size and 
multiply it by a completely random number I get page 84, which then points me to page 136. Some 
craziness such as this. The last email I received from him he stated he was becoming paranoid about his 
work. That was the last I ever heard from Cowboy Carl, but we can learn from him here. Page numbers 
in Tunnel DO correlate with a code but the code is not random and MUST be tied into elements that are 
repeated in the book. See at this point I had learned that important parts or points are repeated. An 
example of this is the Tele-Talk which was deliberately invented twice. You need the Tele-Talk, you need 
to have it working to truly understand L.O.V. So there is an order, a technique, if you will to the coding. 
Learn the techniques and Tunnel is not so hard.

--- PAGE 9 of 27 ---

We will be dealing more with this book very soon. For now, make sure you have 418 to 420 pages in 
your Tunnel book. If you only have slightly over 210 or some other number, the coding will NOT work, 
you are wasting your time! 
 
PHASE 4:  WORLD TOUR 
 
     The initial idea hit me when I was floating around my pool soaking up the Sun when I was 35. Why 
not actually meet people? I mean I had had people to my house since I was 31, some were even ex CBOT 
pit traders, but why not really get out there and meet people. I mean I am not going to invite 50-100 
people to my house. There was just one problem. I had only spoken publicly once, in the 7th grade, and 
that did not go so well! 
     Melbourne Australia was chosen for the first seminar, not only because I had very good friends there 
(and still do) but also because of its symbolic importance in Tunnel. I knew who to get into contact with 
to make this all happen, and to all of them that worked to make it happen I again want to say thank you 
as the experience was a definite stepping stone in my life. I don’t recall an exact final number of 
attendees but it was well over 50 with some flying in from other countries to attend.  
   I think it’s time to go in, Sunrise over the ocean is always a beautiful thing, when all the possibilities of 
the day hit you. Then the sun continues to rise, the heat kicks in and the pages I am writing on begin to 
curl due to the humidity.  
     For those that have never been to Australia it is a beautiful country. The people there are outgoing 
and happy with a “vibrancy” about them. The only parallel I can make is the “vibe” is like the U.S. was 
back in the 1970’s. They eat really nutritious food there. Anyone that has done any travelling knows how 
fresh and tasty the food in other countries is. Lettuce tastes like lettuce, not the cardboard found in the 
U.S. Their adrenal glands, due to the nutrients in the food, are still functioning at a very high level. Our 
adrenals produce hormones which are vital to our vitality, you shut down the nutrition, the adrenals 
cannot function and you lose your “pep”. 
     Ok, so let me put this into perspective for you. There I am, supposed to start speaking to over 50 
people in a foreign country I have never been and without any previous public speaking to back me up. 
Well, I will never forget walking up to that podium. This would not be the only time in my life when my 
back was up against the wall, but it would be the first time I would do it with over 50 people watching!  
I’m sure it was due to the eagerness to learn from the attendees that I was able to pull everything off! 
They were excited and asked many questions that I felt showed they were following along. I am grateful 
to all of them. Afterwards people would come up to me showing me their marked up Tunnel books from 
years of research. These people were awesome and I can say I am friends with about a handful of them 
to this very day! 
     As news of the success of that seminar spread, thanks in large part to the wonderful attendees, I 
began receiving requests to do them all over the world. My next one was scheduled 4 months after the 
first one and in America, then one about 3 months after that in Europe. Everywhere I went I met the 
most amazing people. It was fantastic!  Although currently retired from all of that, I would wind up,

--- PAGE 10 of 27 ---

unknown to me at the time, doing the touring for many years. To be completely honest I loved Australia 
so much that I would generally stay over there for close to a month, soaking in the sunshine on the 
many beaches I visited at the time. Eventually I would get burned out on all the traveling, settling down 
more into family life.  
     There are two things that stand out about my 36th year of life. One is meeting a Doctor we will call Dr. 
Wise. The other is a discovery I made that is critical to all traders. The principle of it is that there is a 
relationship between the stock or commodity/currency you are trading and yourself. Meaning there will 
be some instruments you won’t be able to make any money out of!  
     It all started like this. I pooled a couple hundred people I knew to see if they would tell me about their 
bad trades so I could study their personal cycles in relation to their losses. I became inundated with 
emails, like a massive wave. Out of those about three people wrote me that they could trade a single 
instrument successfully. I figured that would be a great starting point. I then went back and interviewed 
all three, seeing what kind (size) profits, what tools they used and their general trading knowledge. I also 
asked for their natal information, which they happily provided so that I could look at how they were 
“linked” to their particular trading instrument. What I found shocked me! These guys were using things 
like “moving averages” and making nice income. They had no real knowledge of Gann’s techniques and 
what they were using could best be described as a “gut feeling” to trade. But, and this is the key, their 
success was only applicable to one instrument, the minute that they deviated and traded something 
else, losses quickly followed! This meant it was instrument specific!!! As long as they traded that one 
specific instrument they were almost always profitable. For W.D. Gann, that instrument was Mex Pete, 
Mexican Petroleum, in which Gann states “I was almost always profitable in it, it was like I was making 
the marks myself.” Both Gann and Bayer specifically state to stay away from stocks etc. that you have 
not been profitable in. Gann himself states that there are some stocks he has never been able to make 
money in. That is saying a lot! 
     My time was spent developing systems to test this so that others could find a stock that is profitable 
to them. My study reveals about 1 in 30 will be good for the trader. So if you try 30 different ones you 
should find one that is pretty consistent as far as profits go. Taking 3 small trades in them and you 
should have at a minimum 2 good wins and 1 small loss, if not all wins. The tool used is your “gut 
feeling” on what that instrument is going to do.  
     Later I would develop paper trading techniques that also get one results for finding their “lucky 
trading instrument.”  
     About a month ago a trader friend reported he had 30 trades on his lucky currency with only 3 small 
losses, this kind of news is typical from those who look into it. Some find their lucky stock or index and 
literally retire, saying they have found their personal ATM machine. 
     Around this time frame I began having health problems, which I attribute to the standard American 
diet, appropriately nicknamed SAD. Finally, I went into get tested and they put me on like 8 different 
prescriptions and an appointment to see a heart doctor. I took the prescriptions once and flushed them.  
     I walked into the heart doctor’s office and there were all these people in like their 80’s and 90’s who 
looked at me like I was crazy for being there in my mid 30’s. He ran all these expensive tests, costing

--- PAGE 11 of 27 ---

thousands of dollars and could find nothing at all wrong. His advice was to move to Paris. Straight out of 
his mouth that is what he told me! 
     Here is what happened. Doctor #1 which I have called “Dr. Death” for years; told me to get on a no 
fat diet. Then later I was tested and all my numbers come back “Sky High”. I then went to Paris and 
strictly against Doctors orders ate all the high fat foods they offer. Came back to the states and got 
tested by the heart Doc. My levels there came in normal. Well I had to use Gann research techniques on 
health to find the cause. In the absence of fat in the diet the body takes in carbohydrates and stores 
them as triglycerides, inflating all the numbers. When I went to Paris the fat famine was over and the 
body dumped the triglycerides. Dr. Death was subsequently fired. Years later she appeared in all the 
newspapers, the feds got her on fraud and her husband was arrested for cocaine possession. Shortly 
after the imaginary “health scare” I met another doctor who called me on the phone and wanted me to 
help him with Gann. Few know this but in America the average age of a Doctor at their death is 56 years 
of age! I was sick of doctors and here I had another one on the phone, asking for my help! To be honest I 
almost hung up on him until he said “no, I am not one of the bad guys, I am a Naturopathic doctor.” I 
told him about my asthma that I had since childbirth and he said to come out to Boston and he could 
cure it in ½ hour. What? There is not cure for asthma! My parents thought I was crazy but a few days 
later I was on a plane heading to Boston. I would not know what he looked like, so I could identify him in 
the airport, he would be carrying the orange book “Tunnel Thru The Air” which I saw very quickly. We 
shook hands he took me to a hotel and said he would be back the next day.  
     The next day he took me to his office. He had cleared his appointments so it was just me, him and a 
secretary. The phone was ringing off the hook and his secretary was telling people he was booked up, 
for the NEXT 2 YEARS! He then took me into his office where there were pictures on the wall of him with 
Princes from other countries, Dignitaries and a Supreme Court Justice, whom he was best friends with 
for 20 years.  
     He gave me some natural herbs which he got from the pharmacy he owned downstairs and the 
asthma went away just like he said! 
     We went out to lunch and he explained that he had spent millions on “Gann Stuff” and I quickly 
deduced he could still not forecast. With my usual researcher inquisitiveness, I changed the subject and 
began to probe him about his story and what he actually does.  
     Not yet written here, his secretary, when we were back in the office, had come up to meet me. She 
told me that the Dr. had cured her bedridden mother of MS by slipping certain herbal mixtures into her 
while she was in the hospital. That testimonial combined with my relieved asthma condition, the 
pictures on the wall, something was going on here and I had to get to the bottom of it.  
     When I began asking questions Dr. Wise informed me his specialty was cancer. He said he could cure 
all but 4 types of it. Naturally I asked him why he could not cure the 4 and his response, with a sullen 
look, was “I am not hitting the right receptors.” He then went on to state that traditional allopathic 
medicine in the U.S. is all fraud and that the cures are already here but are suppressed, so that the 
“doctors” can make all the money they can.  I asked him how he learned his trade and he said he was a 
graduate of Bastyr University that when he was there the average age of his teachers was 86! (Recall in 
the U.S. the average age of an allopathic doctor at death is 56) This is simple natural law. You see when 
you help people, TRULY help them, there is a returning flow! When you scam them or are a part of a

--- PAGE 12 of 27 ---

larger picture that does not really have their best interests at heart, there is also a returning flow….but it 
isn’t good! 
     Dr. Wise would go on to tell me how things really were and that the public had no idea of it. He knew 
people who knew TRUTH, not about markets but about what we will call, the real world.  He also started 
explaining his theory on quantum physics over dinner. I had no idea what the guy was talking about, I 
am not that smart.  
     Then he really blew me away. He took me home to meet his family and we went up in the attic. There 
were rows and rows of boxes, stacked 6 feet high (2 meters) and 9 feet long. These boxes were filled 
with ancient manuscripts and scrolls. I was stunned. Never one to be over staged I showed him a cycle 
that we were using. One that I called the “old type” now because there are better cycles.  He was 
floored. The only problem I had with that type of cycle was that I never could get the inversions 100% 
squared away. Gann supplies a better type of cycle with an accurate inversion solution in his Tunnel 
book. 
     As my time with the Dr. was coming to a close I invited him, free of charge, to my next seminar which 
would be held on the East Coast. He said he would be there. 
     The Dr. had devoted much of his life to studying Gann and because he had also developed good 
energy by helping people, natural law HAD to repay him in kind. He said he had been searching for years 
on how to get the natal of a stock using the data and when he saw my method he “wept tears of joy.” 
Which made me very happy to be helping someone who had helped so many.  
     Around that time my Tunnel studies had been bearing more fruit. I began understanding that Gann’s 
cycles are coded in Days in that book, although there are a few yearly references.  
     Unbeknown to me at the time, my personal success cycles, were on the upswing for the next few 
years. One would turn down in 2009 for a few years which would make my personal trend sideways for 
a while, but that was still off in the distance. More good things were to come into my life.  
     A couple years before I had started to study numerology. And as anyone who has studied such can 
attest there are all these different systems for different languages. The reason is that each language has 
its own resonant frequency and so a different interpretation or Kabala. I speak English so I need the 
English system, where A=1, B=2, C=3, D=4, E=5, F=6, G=7, H=8, I=9, J=1, K=2…..Z=8. If English is your 
native tongue, this is the system to use. Numbers govern vibration! But back in these days around my 
36-37th year of life it would be a couple years before I knew how to use it. I am sure we will revisit 
numbers soon in this work.  
     My East Coast Seminar went off without a hitch, everyone loved it and we all learned much. Dr. Wise 
showed up and people came running up to me saying “Do you know who you have here, this Doctor is 
world famous.” I smiled and nodded my head. There was an “electricity” in that get together that was 
just incredible, so much so I got a little teary eyed when it ended. I also was given a cycle prototype, 
when it was over, from a mentor. That would transform my life because this type of cycle had an 
inversion solution that was close to 100%, meaning you could gauge when it was going to invert in the 
future. (Gann himself would miss 1-2 inversions a year BUT you know exactly where the tricky ones are, 
you simply avoid them in trading!) In this regard I would say to study the Demon of Death very carefully

--- PAGE 13 of 27 ---

in Tunnel. Gann actually writes a lot on inversions in Tunnel, going to great lengths to deal with them, 
but like so many other things its really useless without the cycle.  
     In being completely honest it took me a couple of years to master the radium ray.  
     Tunnel, which we will be dealing with more in depth, is written in layers like an onion. It takes a while 
to peel back the layers one layer leading to another. Gann knew that originally people would study his 
works for trading purposes; to procure more money. What most people do not understand is that while 
you are studying the book, trying to improve your trading you pick up knowledge. Then, as you 
accumulate more of this knowledge you realize, at some point its far more valuable than dollars! 
     Here is a small example; we all went to history class in some sort of “school”. But nowhere in there 
was Atlantis mentioned. Many “scholars” believe it was a myth. The “researchers” know better. The 
difference is the researchers have rejected the schooling and have spent many hours researching it. 
Gann wrote in Tunnel that the wonderful inventions the Atlantians had are due to repeat. He states this 
on page 76, which is an important page number. People have all sorts of opinions and their opinions 
directly affect their lives.  
     The truth is like so many other things far different that we were taught. Get the book “The Lost 
Continent of MU” by Col. James Churchward, for a start. 
     Although it would not be the last time I saw him, Dr. Wise disappeared without a trace. The office, 
the pharmacy everything was gone in a flash. 
 
PHASE 5: MELTDOWN 
 
     My friends had known in 2006 that a market meltdown was coming in the fall of 2008. Earlier in that 
year I was over in Australia and I leaned over to a guy that was talking about long term predictions and I 
said “I got one for you, watch what happens in late summer/early fall this year.” Then I cracked a grin. 
     The warning signs had begun to form in early 2008 with the collapse of Bear Stearns, I recall that day 
very well, I walked downstairs at a hotel I was staying at and was having breakfast with a money 
manager. He was reading the newspaper sipping his coffee and showed me the story. I knew at a glance 
this was the first domino of a cycle that was due in the fall. The cycle that was timing this was not of 
planetary origin, although the planetary cycles timed the points. That’s how Gann’s systems on time 
work, they complement each other. One generally starts out using solely the planetary systems then 
moves on to Gann’s other systems. Some attempt to skip the planetary systems but I can honestly say I 
do not know of anyone who is a success and has skipped the planetary systems. Two of Gann’s three 
price systems he describes in Tunnel are IMPOSSIBLE to operate without the planets. One needs to 
know how to square out price with the planets. Study the “Tunnel Machines” especially in Detroit.  
     Over the Spring I continued to watch the entire saga unfold and at some point, I can’t remember, I 
pulled my parents out of stock funds and put them in bond funds. This proved to be a fantastic move, 
which really helped their retirement funds. The market continued to weaken throughout the late Spring

--- PAGE 14 of 27 ---

and early Summer. You can usually gauge this by running an “accumulation, distribution” line on the 
DOW, or any of the major indexes. Money was clearly being withdrawn even before the collapse.  
     Around this time, and knowing what was coming, my friends and I began acquiring physical silver and 
other metals. We would sell out at the top in 2011, but that was still years away. ALL of Gann’s cycles 
are based on past repeats. Like here is a simple numerical connection with the War of Independence in 
1776, Civil War 1860’s, World War II 1940’s and the next repeat in the 2020’s here in America.  Again, 
ALL of Gann’s Cycles work off of repeats of the past, no exceptions, Ecclesiastics 1:9. 
     Two gentleman had asked me for private tutoring. I agreed to meet with them both over the course 
of a weekend, for some Gann Training. Both men were at the table with me at the same time, receiving 
the exact same training, meaning they were taught the identical same thing. One of them took the 
system, retired, making a 6 figure income from trading. The other could not get it to work. My attention 
began to shift to the one that was unsuccessful. He flew back in for additional training, appearing 
“spaced” and unfocused. When he left I did several follow up phone calls with him to no avail. Finally, 
the woman he was living with said “He does not want to take your call.” I had been providing the 
additional training at no additional cost. I was, at the time, confused. How could one succeed and not 
the other? I mean if both failed the fault would have been with the system, but that was clearly not the 
case here.  
     I was, at the time, unsure of the cause but knew one thing for certain, I did not want to feel like this 
ever again. It would be a couple of years until I would understand the reason; why one person can 
succeed and another can’t. So for the time being I started to turn people away from any real help in the 
Gann field. 
     That same year I had also bumped into a character we will call “Insane Wayne”. This guy appeared to 
be a true seeker, he had the drive and eventually came into some genuine Gann information not written 
by me but from someone who truly knew. Paradoxically Insane Wayne seemed to be able to find 
information that proved the correct information he had was bogus! I was stunned. I told him it was 
correct but he was insistent that it was not. He had managed to disprove truth, at least in his own mind! 
The very last I heard of Insane Wayne was that he had bought international plane tickets for himself and 
his family which were non-refundable and showed up at the airport in the nick of time to catch the 
airplane, without their passports! Indeed, Insane Wayne was vibrating to failure! More on this later.   
     I had been trading U.S. Steel Options and managed to catch a “huge chunk” of the down move.  
     I knew the point that the fireworks would start, it was when the DOW hit a certain price from the line 
coming down from the top. It got within 40 points of it, turned and shot down 777 points. What we had 
been waiting for was here! Most people I knew were loaded up in PUT options which were doubling or 
tripling on a daily basis. I recall sitting down in a chair, turning on the TV, it was a Friday and I almost 
never buy options on a Friday. I saw the DOW was up 287 points, I mean after all these years I still 
remember the exact amount. I thought to myself “that is too fucking high”, that was my exact thought. I 
ran in and bought more U.S. Steel Puts cause the cycle low was not due until about the 8th. After I 
bought those Puts 95% of my trading account was in U.S. Steel Put Options. I no more that got the trade 
confirmation went back in to sit down and noticed the DOW had turned negative! That Monday those 
options more than tripled. I am looking at this huge percentage gain and decided to sell out everything

--- PAGE 15 of 27 ---

before Mondays close. The low came in on Friday so I did miss a bit of the last of it, but hey, I did not 
complain. I continued to trade well until the following April.  
 
PHASE 6:   SHOCK POINTS 
  
     The human body is designed to live to be slightly over 120 years. Therefore, the shock points of FA 
and LA occur at slightly over 40 and 80 years of age.  
     There are certain points in your natal chart that when they get hit by transiting planets will 
consistently produce losses. One of these points was getting hit in my chart by a very slow moving 
planet. My last options trade was in April following the 2008 melt down. The trade was in SLV and I 
knew it was going down.. I jumped on to place the trade and my wife burst into the room, somehow I 
paid 4 times the market for the options. Next error in that trade was that SLV double dipped, my friend 
got out on the first dip with sweet profits and I held on for the second dip. What would have been a 
good trade wound up to be a scratch. The options weren’t worth as much on the second dip. I realized 
that my personal trend had changed so I closed the trade and did not trade options for the next 2 years. 
There was just too much going on in my personal life.  
     My numerology studies had begun to bear fruit. 
     There are 2 master numbers that each individual has. One is their “inner birth number” which is the 
day of birth. Like if you were born May 6 1961, the 6th is your inner birth number. The other critical 
number is your name number. You add up your name. Like if your name is John. J=1, O=6, H=8, and  
N=5. Adding those numbers together you get 20. You use the name that people call you. Like if your 
birth name is Michael and everyone calls you Mike. You are vibrating to Mike, so you would use that. I 
had added these up and noted that my birth number, a beautiful number was NOT in harmony with my 
name. So I changed my name. My old name was of the nature so as it would attract people such as 
Insane Wayne into my life. The new name would create a harmony allowing me to live a much fuller, 
richer life. The Bible is filled with name changes and in some cultures today when someone is sick they 
change their name, which alters their vibration. Warning!! Do not change your name unless you know of 
all the ramifications of doing so, after years of study.  
     My old name had attracted many inharmonious people into my life. It’s not that they were bad its 
just that for the most part they did not see things the way I did. According to the rules of a name change 
it takes about 3-4 months for the vibration to switch over and you begin getting the new affect.  
     Remember that “shock point” I said hits you around age 40 or slightly after. Well even mainstream 
knows about it, not the cause but the affect, known as mid-life crisis!! Sometimes things get worse 
before they get better What I had actually done is switched from and inharmonious name to a 
harmonizing name. Many people would need to leave my life in order for harmony to come into it. All of 
a sudden I was the “bad guy”. Just like Frank Sinatra, when he was going through those years, no one 
wanted to have anything to do with me. Friends were few and far between.  
     My wife began acting strangely and I needed help in this area. A friend, one of the few I had at the 
time told me he was going to buy me a “manifestation” which is something I did not really believe in at

--- PAGE 16 of 27 ---

the time. I got an email saying that the manifestation had been completed (whatever that meant). The 
next day Dr. Wise called saying he had been meditating and felt the urge to call me. He had disappeared 
2 years prior. He was familiar with what was going on with my wife. Saying if I followed his instructions, 
exactly, that she would be cured. He then ordered me out of the environment. I will tell you, leaving a 
family is one of the hardest things one can ever do in their life. I slipped out in October under doctors’ 
orders and did not return until the end of January. The plans were to stop off and see one of the few 
friends I had at the time, then off to a resort for an, as yet, undetermined time. My friend had a guest 
room and bathroom in one wing of the house so he insisted I stay with him and his family, which to this 
day I am very grateful for. I passed my time by helping my friend and his family on many levels. I wanted 
to leave them all “better off” then when I came. He went from “heavy losses” to an accuracy he later 
told me was “just below 100%” a couple of years later. One of his major problems was putting trades on 
that were over 10% of his trading account. An individual has a “vibrational trading range” and breaking 
that range often leads to losses. I was just talking with a guy, 2 months ago, that could make consistent 
profits by putting about 3,000 into a trade, but when he would put 6,000 into a trade he would lose. This 
is because the 6000 is outside his frequency range. Instead of jumping from 3 to 6, he could go from 3 to 
3.5, SLOWLY, increasing his range. Think about it. If you are making say 100K per year you could 
probably get by asking your boss for a 5k raise. But if you asked for an additional 100K, doubling your 
income, your boss is going to find it “humorous” at best.  It’s too far outside your vibration. Now you 
could, over time, work your way up to 200K, but to jump up to it isn’t going to happen.  All vibration is 
governed by very specific laws.  
     Gann would never trade more than 10% of his account. My friend at the time had trades in excess of 
30% and we put a stop to that! He began to “micro-trade” putting only 2-3% of his account in a trade 
and slowly increasing that amount over many trades. IMHO you don’t want to be at 10% until a couple 
hundred trades have been taken.  
     I got the call to return home at the end of January with the goal of getting the wife out to Dr. Wise in 
Boston area. 
     Cycle wise, even though I was under the mid-life crisis cycles, one of the personal success cycles had 
topped the year before and was pointing down for a few years, one of my other personal success cycles 
was still on the upswing, so this would create a sideways trend for me with a downward bias. Being into 
Astro like Gann was, I knew I just had to hang in there and ride the storm out.  
     Getting the whole family out to the Boston area was a logistical nightmare but I pulled it off. At a time 
when friends were scarce there was my good friend Dr. Wise! Now of course you are wondering what 
happened to him in those 2 years. The story he told me read like a blockbuster movie script, so much so 
that I cannot share it here except to say, even if you are a doctor with a license you can’t go around 
curing cancer. Dr. Leonard Coldwell who practiced in Germany has an audited success rate curing Cancer 
patients of over 92% across 30,000 terminal patients. In America the success rate of chemo, radiation 
and surgery is 3%! Let me ask you dear reader, would you trade a 3% system? Coldwell has been shot at 
(has the bullet holds to prove it) and has had his car blown up. Generally, you don’t see that type of 
behavior in an automobile.  
     Dr. Wise invited me to watch as he dealt with my wife. I won’t write the particulars here as some 
readers aren’t ready for it. What happened I did not believe in originally until I saw it myself. That day in 
that room with my wife, myself, Dr. Wise and his assistant, my life changed. This would lead me down a

--- PAGE 17 of 27 ---

great road full of more understanding in a hidden area of life. Here I am, years later, writing this with my 
beautiful wife at my side so grateful, so thankful for the experience! 
     When it was over I got to ask Dr. Wise all the questions I wish I had two years before. One that 
shocked me the most is I told him I was always out in the Sun and was worried about “melanoma.” He 
said “Oh that’s nothing I got some salve you put that on and it will clear right up.” I said “No, I mean that 
deadly melanoma that is killing people.” He responded “Yes, I know, a little dab will due you.” I was 
shocked and looked at his assistant who was nodding her head Yes. Then Dr. Wise responded “That is 
the easiest of all the cancers to treat, because you can see it.”  
     Dr. Wise gave me further instructions and had to go away again. It would be the last time I would 
ever see him! 
     Meanwhile great progress was being made on the Gann front. More and more of the inventions in 
Tunnel were making sense. I am a trader, who loves trading and due to personal cycles I knew I could 
not at this time so I threw myself into research. Which proved to be not only a pleasant distraction but a 
wise decision. We have talked about Tunnel, written in layers, and it can take a bit of time to reach 
those layers. Tunnel is a book of connections. Gann can put one part of the system in the beginning and 
the rest of it at the end of the book. Some feel they are going after 1 secret like, A squared + B squared = 
C squared, then you can go make a million dollars. Gann is a series of secrets, each one leading to the 
next one, that must be mastered. In other words, a succession of secrets, if you will.  
     For the most part I would read Tunnel, check my notebook then go think about it. I had worked out 
several parts of it this way, while other parts would just come to me. I recall one discovery that I woke 
up with, emailed myself the solution and went back to bed! 
 
PHASE 7: THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR 
 
   This book, Tunnel, is by far the best book ever written on financial markets and one of the main goals 
of the work you are currently reading is to help you decode it in order that you can make a success in 
your trading.  
     Here is what I believe is a golden path that others have used to make a success. W.D. Gann, George 
Bayer and Luther Jensen could all forecast the markets with a high degree of accuracy. This then 
becomes the goal of the seeker. 
      In order to accurately forecast one must have a cycle. Some people believe that the cycles consist of 
things like declination, apogee, latitude, planetary speed, etc. but that is not what the TIME cycles 
consist of. Specifically, what you are looking for is a High Low High Low sequence with about 10-15% 
inversions. In all my testing apogee etc. does not provide the High Low Sequence that is so critical to a 
Gann Trader.  
     Gann’s Time Cycles have lengths, which are governed by certain measurements. They work a certain 
way and there is definitely a rhythm. You have to get at least one of his time cycles working to be able to 
forecast Highs and Lows, like Gann, Bayer, and Jensen. This is step one! Things like inversions, price etc.

--- PAGE 18 of 27 ---

are absolutely meaningless without the TIME CYCLES! Geometry? Don’t touch it! Gann’s true systems 
are less than 10% geometry and that will only work with the very advanced parts of the system. 
     This begs the question then, where does one find the length of repeats of these cycles? Enter the 
book Tunnel. Gann put all the major cycles in this book for YOU to find. He did this in order to help those 
that truly seek to improve their lives with knowledge. By doing so he accumulates good will which is far 
more important than money, and as he states in the forward “shall have my reward” (more on this 
natural law will be provided to the reader in this work so that they do not sabotage themselves). 
     Getting back to Tunnel, it’s a book of connections. It’s a puzzle and you are going to need to assemble 
the pieces to make a success. This will take you YEARS through a sustained effort. The good news is that 
this effort will lead you to TRUTH which will alter your life FAR FAR more than money. IMHO of all the 
things to do in the work, there is nothing more noble than to seek truth! 
     Go to the store and acquire a spiral notebook with at least 150 sheets. Write on it “Tunnel Master.” 
Originally I had a couple of 3 foot by 2 foot white boards, which I bought at an office supply store many 
years ago. Then a couple of trader friends showed up with white sheets that cling to the walls. “National 
Brand Write On” sells 35 sheets of this on Amazon for about 22 dollars currently. I switched over to 
these “dry erase” as they provided a lot more room. These dry erase sheets will come in handy for 
making the connection that will later go into the “Tunnel Master” notebook.  
     Starting out with the notebook, take every invention and write down what is said about it and also 
the page numbers it is mentioned on.  
     One invention is “Marie the Angel of Mercy” which we call MAM for short. So at the top of the 
notebook page we would write MAM then go through Tunnel first writing the page number (page 234) 
and what was said about it (work was started on the new machine with all secrecy, it had already been 
christened “Marie the Angel of Mercy”). Next you want to find and isolate a DATE for the event. Page 
233 has “Fall of 1928” then page 234 has early September 1928. So the actual date must be presumed 
to be early September 1928, and because Gann did not specifically provide us with a date, we can 
assume this to be important because Gann made us work for it. Think like this! “How would Gann hide 
his time cycles which all have a length of time to repeat?” 
     We then would go looking for the next time “Marie the Angel of Mercy” is listed. Once we find it we 
write down the page number, what is said, and the date or at least as close as we can get to the date 
using what Gann gives us. This process is repeated until all the times MAM is mentioned are put into our 
notebook in the above manner.  
     Once this process is complete on MAM we can go and do our unofficial configuring on our white 
board sheets. Playing around with dates, putting together, comparing and looking at the distance the 
planets moved, number of DAYS between mentioning etc. 
     Yes, dear reader, this is the road that leads one to success. 
      The inventions are all important, even the seemingly smaller ones like the “Pocket Radio” or “Silent 
Muffler.” 
     The next phase, after all the inventions is the keywords, which are slightly less obvious at times but 
can be just as important. Here is a small sampling; supreme, bicycle, level, ray and Sunday. You want to

--- PAGE 19 of 27 ---

process these like inventions, writing down the page number, how the word was used and the date (if 
any) as not all will have dates and that is ok. As a final step also count the number of times it is used in 
the book, keywords are often repeated X number of times which will have a specific meaning. An 
example is Charity which appears 5 times in the book. This tells me it ties into a particular advanced 
concept where the number 5 is important, specifically where Robert Gordon was born.       
     This type of analysis can lead to success at finding the cycles, for Gann not only gives you the cycles 
but the Planets that are involved. If an airplane does not have a pilot (aviator) it is of the nature of cycles 
that do not use the planets. It’s a higher level system. 
     The longitude and latitude for every city mentioned should be obtained by the seeker.  
     RULE; There is little, if any, “filler” in this book. If a city is mentioned its important. If a date is 
mentioned its important. NO EXCEPTIONS! 
     Poor Robert Gordon “cotton head” starts out being teased by his brother, then works his way up to 
“Supreme Commander.” At different phases of his life, depending on what he is called, he is different 
things! So are the other characters. 
     Each name that is mentioned in the book is important. Both Gann and Jensen mention Descartes, 
with Gann cloaking him in the book. 
     Pythagoras is mentioned saying something weird about women on page 191 “there are in a woman’s 
eyes two sorts of tears, one of grief the other of deceit.” Pythagoras was a mathematician so the line is 
suspect. Decoded it means “two sorts of tears, one”. This 2:1 ratio is the Octave, so he is saying study 
Pythagoras and Octaves! 
     When I found, what I thought was a cycle, never did I ask someone “Is this a cycle, figuring if I asked 
that I had no real knowledge of it.” If you do not know if you have a cycle or not, you probably don’t. 
The way to find out is easy. Your cycle will go H, L, H, L etc. with an occasional inversion (about 10% of 
the time). If you have a cycle that inverts 40% of the time you have coincidence. Remember the master 
key; you MUST have an accurate TIME cycle first, before ANY other thing will work! The time cycle must 
have come from Tunnel, to be one of Gann’s TRUE cycles. Once you find them expect your life to begin 
to change! Gann’s cycles will allow you to forecast and that is step one. 
     Gann will emphasize certain parts in the book with Capitals, and the use of words like great or 
gigantic, these relate to critical areas. 
     This work was started on Robert Gordon’s 110th birthday. Certain things act as “hubs” in the book 
such as the 110 story building which is used in no less than 3 different calculations in the book! Another 
hub or tie in is the GIGANTIC attack on New York City.  
     Tunnel was written at a specific resonant frequency. When one matches that frequency the book 
literally coughs up her secrets! Although ever so slowly in the beginning, becoming faster and faster.

--- PAGE 20 of 27 ---

PHASE 8: THE REAL KEY TO YOUR SUCCESS!   
 
    Many people come into the Gann field because they want to make a lot of money and they figure 
Gann will help them succeed. The real key is if the individual wants things in their life to change they 
have to change. 
     Everything in this universe has a specific resonant frequency. Even a rock sitting in the same place for 
tens of thousands of years has a specific measurable frequency.   
     Human beings also have a specific measurable frequency. Get the book “Power Us Force”, by David R. 
Hawkins. That book is a MUST HAVE book as it proves that TRUTH has a very high vibration! 
     The Golden Rule is Like attracts Like; the Law of Attraction, so TRUTH attracts more truth. It is Law. 
TRUTH is also very high vibration (see Power Vs. Force) and Gann wrote the Truth in Tunnel. I assure you 
dear reader the book contains TRUTH! 
     Now I need to give you an example in contrast. Let’s say someone offered you a million dollars, as an 
experiment, to live in a crack house for a month. You accept the challenge even though you have no 
intention of smoking crack. I doubt you would be able to make it a week. Because you and the crack 
smokers are all in a state of vibration, being around the negativity, the hopelessness, the confusion 
would begin to drag down your own vibration! Even though you have no thoughts of smoking crack you 
would begin to feel your own vibration spiraling down, getting lower and lower as time marches on. This 
downward spiral would begin affecting your first mentally, then physically. What is occurring here is the 
same as walking into a piano store, striking a key on a stringed piano and having the other pianos sound 
off. Science calls this “phenomena” sympathetic resonance.  
    Now most of us won’t need to experiment with a crack house, but similarly our vibrations are 
impacted by many factors each day. An all-inclusive list would fill up many pages but the main ones are: 
1) your thoughts, 2) the food you eat, 3) the amount of nutrients you acquire, 4) the people you 
surround yourself with, 5) the water your drink, 6) News, shows, music. 
     Your thoughts are by far the most critical element of all of these. You must train your thoughts to be 
positive. This can take some time. Napoleon Hills book “Think and Grow Rich” along with his audio “The 
Science of Personal Achievement” can come in handy. Also I think a study of the Law of Attraction helps.  
      When it comes to the foods you eat, volumes could be written. Essentially there are 3 main 
elements; Vitamins, Minerals and Enzymes. As stated earlier out life span should be around 120 years. 
When we cook our food about 116 degrees we cook out the enzymes. Therefore, eating a good portion 
of raw foods is helpful to our systems. Eating an all Organic diet is not enough as much of the food was 
grown on nutrients different soils with the vitamins and minerals long gone out of the soil. GMO MUST 
be avoided at all costs, reference Dr. Joseph Mercola. Microwave ovens, while convenient alter the 
energy structure of the food making it low vibration! 
     Personally I have an orchard where the fruit trees and vegetables are sprayed with Dr. Mercola’s Sea 
Minerals. Once a fruit or vegetable is picked its energy (vibration) begins to diminish. I know it sounds 
crazy but it is a scientific fact. Study Kirlian Photography in relation to fruits and vegetables. A head of 
lettuce loses 50% of its nutrients shortly after being picked! So the stuff in the store is devoid of any

--- PAGE 21 of 27 ---

nutrients, even if its “fresh” and unprocessed. Take your food VERY seriously. Study the works of Markus 
Rothkranz and on You Tube “life regenerator” or anyone else you find that talks about “vibration” and 
food. Freshly grown, pesticide free, raw food is of the highest vibration, even higher if minerals have 
been added into the growing cycle. Although it is a road of its own, that will find its almost impossible to 
raise your vibration while eating low vibrational food. So seek to spend more eating of more nutritional 
food.  
     In my early 20’s I owned a couple of pet shops. There were snakes in there and they ate mice and 
rats. So in order to bypass the middle man we started breeding mice and rats on our own. Strangely they 
would have a litter of 1 or 2. After many months of this I was at the feed store and the owner told me 
the reason they were not very prolific was because the feed I was using, while cheap, did not contain 
enough vitamins & minerals. I was paying 16 dollars a bag and he suggested I use the 50-dollar bag. I 
bought a bag and also some liquid vitamin/minerals. Within a month they were producing 20-22 per 
litter!  Before long we had more than we needed and our competition, when running short, would buy 
from us! I call this the “lesson of the rat” and never forgot it! 
     A few years ago a friend of mine from India stated “There is not cure for diabetes.” All of the cures for 
these “incurable” diseases are already here. You just need to research them out. Diabetes is simple to 
cure in 2-14 days. Study the work of Dr. Joel Wallach.  
     Cancer? Where do I start. There are many cures already here for this but you have to research. 
Oxygen is BIG but there is an even better cure all. I do not do drugs; the last time I drank alcohol was 2 
glasses of wine before Christmas over 4 years ago. If I had Cancer I would do what works! Get the book 
“Phoenix Tears” by Rick Simpson. I am not a doctor and hold no licenses in anything, I am a researcher 
who seeks out truth! Remember our axiom: Truth attracts more truth. Spend your time seeking out 
truth. Learn to judge low vibrational writing from high vibrational truth.  
     When it comes to water the ideal is Spring Water that has NEVER touched plastic. Putting this water 
into a cold refrigerator increases the structure and therefore the vibration of the Spring Water. 
Fluoride? Just say NO! Avoid that stuff. All chemicals are low vibration, NO exceptions! 
     If you came to my house and I grilled outside some food for everyone, then I brought yours inside and 
sprinkled a white powdery chemical all over it, which I got from a 50-gallon barrel, what would you 
think? Would you eat it? Probably not. What if you asked me, “will that white chemical hurt me” and I 
responded “the guy that sold it to me paid for a study that found it was safe”. What would you think? 
And yet most do every day; trusting chemical companies that have profit motives. We are all on our own 
paths for sure, my goal in writing this is to help you by giving you information I feel is accurate, correct 
and well researched in order to make your path easier.  
   There are 3 things that work in tandem; the mental, physical and spiritual. For me, my spiritual bank 
account is every bit as important as my physical bank account.  
     Let’s say I invited you to my house, and when you arrived I challenged you to a game of football or 
soccer and you accepted. We go outside and I write all the rules down on a sheet of paper and put it in 
my pocket. As the game starts, you broke a rule, so I stopped the game to inform you that you cannot 
do that as it’s against the rules that I have in my pocket. Who will win that game? So in any game it’s 
important to know the rules (LAWS) in order to win that game. Wouldn’t you consider life the biggest

--- PAGE 22 of 27 ---

game of all? We have already learned through PA that people making tens of millions a year are no 
happier than someone making 150,000 a year. So if it’s not money that makes us happy, what is it? For 
each of us it’s a different answer. Knowing the rules (LAWS) helps you live better lives which are more 
fulfilling because we will be in harmony with these laws. Money can be a faithful servant but it can also 
be a tyrannical master depending on how well we know the rules (LAWS).  
     I define wealth as Knowledge, Happiness and Money. I know people who make a lot of dollars but in 
no way would I consider them wealthy according to my definition.  
     This part is being written from Panama City Beach, a far more crowded beach than Jekyll Island was 
but much whiter sand.  Almost a pristine white which is why it’s called the “Emerald Coast”. 
     You see there is a returning flow. If you give out and freely help others you yourself will receive help 
when you need it. I mean, do you recall that time I told you that I woke up in the middle of the night and 
emailed myself the solution, then went back to bed. Where did that really come from? Why did Gann 
really write Tunnel, I mean he certainly did not need the money? Why is the work you are currently 
reading absolutely free? 
     Those familiar with Emerson’s Essay on the Law of Compensation, often referred to by Napoleon Hill 
will understand. For the newcomers may I suggest “The Celestine Prophecy” by James Redfield.  
     I was asked yesterday if I had always been charitable, or if this was something I had recently started. 
The answer is that even at a very young age I would seek ways to help others. Later, when I got older 
and became aware of the LAWS that govern this Universe I accelerated my efforts. Later on people 
would come into my life and help me, in ways I once thought were impossible! 
     So let’s say we find what we believe is a cycle. Let’s say (as an Example Only) that we notice that two 
dates in Tunnel are 2060 days apart which is close to 3 Helio Mars revolutions, what do we do now? 
How can we test this? Gann’s Cycles of Repetition do not have a starting point. They are based on repeat 
of time or length of X. Here, in this example, we believe its 3 revolutions of Mars. 3 X360 = 1080. So we 
would set up a repeating spreadsheet of Mars 1080’s. Meaning when Mars travels 1080 degrees, then 
goes to 1081 degrees we would start a new column that runs from 1081 to 2160, the next column would 
run from 22161 to 3240 etc. etc. 
     Different Instruments will respond to different cycles. Like say the DOW will respond to a particular 
cycle, but not the others. So we will have to test this Mars 1080 on different stocks etc. to see if they 
respond to it. This is what is going on; If the spreadsheet is set up correctly there will be turn repeats 
(vibrational repeats) when Mars hits certain degrees across your sheet. Like say Mars hits 21 degrees 
and you notice a High in one column, then 21 degrees you notice a Low in the next column then 21 
degrees again you notice a Low in the 3rd column. That is how a vibrational repeat across time works. 
That is why the cycle is called a TIME Cycle, is because it has a length of time of X. Now going across, you 
can get anything like all Highs, 1 High and 2 Lows or whatever. The reason is the sequencing comes from 
a different way, specifically heading DOWN your column. Going down the column you should have High, 
Low, High, Low coming from your time cycle. Once this is tested out over a period of a couple of years of 
going down your columns you should have an inversion rate of around 10% and we have talked about 
this before.

--- PAGE 23 of 27 ---

Get the book “Rich Dad, Poor Dad” by Robert Klyosaki. In it note that the rich Dad worked very hard 
at donating and helping others. He was able to understand and use the natural laws. In so doing he 
never attempted to acquire something for nothing. Also, from a statistical stand point, the book by 
Thomas L. Stanley provides mechanical insight, its name is “The Millionaire Next Door.” 
     W.D. Gann died in 1955 and here we are over 60 years later studying him. Obviously the man knew 
something. Let’s take a closer look at the last paragraph of the forward from Tunnel. “ I believe this book 
will prove interesting and valuable to men and women in all walks of life. If it does, you will be thankful 
to the power that guided my hand in showing you the way to eternal truth. My object will have been 
accomplished and I will have my reward”, signed W.D. Gann. Indeed, here was a man that again, 
understood and used natural law.  
     On another note, some people have emotional blocks that sometimes are caused by some form of 
abuse or neglect during childhood. If you fit this pattern you may wish to read the book (or audio) by 
Louise L. Hay entitled “You Can Heal Your Life”. Louise is the owner of Hay House Publishing. Anything 
from Hay House will help you improve your life, and you may want to check into any books they offer on 
something called “The Law of Attraction.” You see, if you really want to win this or any other game you 
have to know the rules (LAWS). 
     I have a close friend who studies with the Tibetan Monks, disappearing for weeks at a time. He 
confirms that the vibration on this planet is rising just as the cycles say it should. Literally you can be, do 
or have anything you want. The key is to raise your personal vibrational frequency to match what you 
want, through the Law of Attraction, then it will come into your life easily and effortlessly.  
  
PHASE 9:    RETIRING FROM THE TOUR 
 
Seven years after it started I did my last gig on the world tour, I was tired and just wanted to spend time 
with my family. Now, years later, looking back I am still amazed at all the wonderful vibrant and 
enthusiastic people I met. I feel truly blessed! I was 42 years old and the tour concluded in North 
America. With my public seminar days over I wanted to focus on a few things. One is I wanted to get to 
the bottom and understand nutrition, I wanted to focus on finishing up my Tunnel decoding, I wanted to 
keep improving my trading, spend time with the family and keep the goodwill flowing by helping others. 
These things all contained my passion and still do.  
     The following year found me in Australia for about a month, visiting friends. A multi-millionaire I had 
originally heard about in 2008 invited me to lunch, which I accepted. We had lunch just South of Surfers 
Paradise at a fantastic seafood place where he knew the owner; he himself a delightful and confident 
man. We talked about many things. In conversation he offered me a million dollars a year to forecast 
one particular market for him. Without even thinking about it, I refused. Working strictly for money 
without a good will return flow is not for me, nor was it for Gann. A few years later I would again get 
offered what many would call a large amount and again I refused.  
     The following year I had a perfect trading year, which I had never had before or since. All trades were 
profitable but, in being completely honest one was a scratch as I managed to squeak out a 6-dollar

--- PAGE 24 of 27 ---

profit. Factoring in commissions I was slightly negative. Now here is the key as to why I brought this up. 
Five months of that year I did not trade. I knew if I did I would get hit with huge losses as transiting 
Saturn (restriction) was making an inharmonious aspect to its natal position within my chart. When that 
is occurring forget all about trading. I have seen real Gann Traders get torn up attempting to trade 
through those times.  
     W. D. Gann would trade in what he called “campaigns” which were periods of time that he knew 
would be rewarding. Furthermore, man has, a seasonal trend in which he will find profits are to be had 
much more readily during certain months. This varies from individual to individual and can be timed 
using the natal. W.D. Gann was not always trading. He did not need to and neither do conditioned Gann 
Traders. Specifically, for myself I always lose money in mid-February, years ago I found the cause and 
simply do not trade in it.  
    Let’s go back here a couple years from this perfect trading year and take a look at some other things 
that were going on after I quit the public seminar circuit.  
     One of my goals was my health and nutrition. Through a chance encounter, at the last seminar, I met 
a man who could measure nuero-pathways in the brain. For those unfamiliar with what this is I will give 
a brief example. Let’s say you do not know how to ride a bicycle up and down the peaks and valleys. In 
your mind there is no nuero-pathway for riding a bicycle. One day you get on a bicycle and start riding 
around, getting better and more confident as time goes by. What is occurring is that your brain creates 
and continues to build a nuero-pathway for riding your bicycle up and down the peaks and valleys. In 
order to build that pathway, the brain needs certain specific nutrients. If it does not get these nutrients 
one winds up with poorly formed or even dysfunctional nuero-pathways. The guy that I met, who is now 
past away, told me that after much experimentation that Dr. Mercola’s Krill Oil was by far the best, for 
building nuero-pathways. I immediately saw the implications this would have for the Gann researcher. 
That was also my introduction to Dr. Mercola who has the world’s #1 health site. Since then I take 2-3 a 
day.  
     In that same time frame I also found the book “Niacin”, by Abram Hoffer, so I worked my way up to 3 
grams a day and found it did wonders for my own mental clarity, greatly improving concentration when 
it came to decoding tunnel.  
     The ancients believed that the gut was the key to the intuitional doorways of the mind. How many 
times have you heard “gut feeling” or “he has a lot of guts”? When I started working with this concept, 
in ways I will soon describe, the Tunnel breakthroughs started occurring faster and more insightful, 
convincing me that the micro-biome really is the key to intuition and higher levels of thinking, also 
feeling better.  
     The first order of business was to kill off the candida albicins, which is the result of taking antibiotics. 
The procedure I followed was from the book “A Miraculous Health Substance” by Marvin Robey, and as 
the fungus (candida) began to die off I had to take sweat baths. The next step was rebuilding with pro-
biotics. What I found is pills are rather low doses, fermentation in the form of kefir or especially coconut 
water (see life regenerator on YT) was FAR more effective. What I also found is that I felt much happier-
clearer in the mind and perhaps more importantly here, things just started “jumping” out of the Tunnel 
book at me. For more information on this see the monumental work called “Gut and Psychology 
Syndrome” by Natasha Campbell-McBride.

--- PAGE 25 of 27 ---

We have touched on the point the some may have “blocks” acquired in childhood, that are, to this 
day, holding them back. A phobia could even be considered a “block”. Fear of heights, spiders, snakes, 
water, small spaces, or elevators can all be quickly and permanently gotten rid of in a matter of minutes. 
The technique is called EFT (Emotional Freedom Technique) and once again we return to Hay House 
Publishing for the book “The Tapping Solution” by Nick Ortner. This technique frees one up to live a 
happier fuller life! 
     Millionaires do not think and/or behave like the rest of the public, often having eccentricities and 
taking the time to program themselves for success. Unfortunately, Gann cannot help you as he passed 
away. The individual MUST take things into their own hands, using natural Law and programming 
themselves for success, while doing away with old habits and patterns that have not produced success. 
Gann wanted it to take 10 years of effort before any real results are obtained. If you have been in this 
field 10-15 or more years and cannot yet forecast, you have a vibrational problem. Believe it or not this 
is very common. There is something holding you back, it could be in the form of a blockage from way 
back or a violation of natural law (like you have been trying to get information out of others without 
giving anything, a direct violation (which natural law will penalize you for) or perhaps you just don’t 
really see yourself successful. Remember the two fellows who sat down and one made a success and the 
other did not? Had both failed I would have been to blame. It would be a couple of years after the 
incident that I was told exactly what happened. The man that succeeded was vibrating to success, the 
man that failed was vibrating to failure. The man who succeeded knew that it was really up to him to 
succeed. The man who failed was looking for others to make him successful which is, in fact, impossible! 
In my almost 18 years of helping people I think that most do not understand that they need to study 
how to succeed, adopting a philosophy and outlook that serves them in acquiring any goal they have. 
Gann is dead, studying Gann will not make you successful and I think many have found this out the hard 
way. You must learn how to be successful. Then you will start to better understand Gann.  
     Let’s say you have studied success and some of the books referenced here. You have found a cycle or 
two and are wondering, What’s the next step?  
 
PHASE 10:  FINDING TRUTH 
 
     Some will seek to understand how W.D. Gann’s price systems work with the cycles, and if you have 
one of Gann’s time cycles this is certainly a valuable study. I would suggest studying the Cotton 
Campaign and The Tunnel machines.  
     Another avenue that will probably appeal to some after finding their first cycle is to understand W.D. 
Gann’s inversion solution. The Gann Traders I know for the most part believe that inversions will take a 
little longer to understand than price. I will tell you dear reader, in this regard, I feel strongly that the 
letter that Robert believed Marie dropped in Paris must first be interpreted before a success can be had 
with inversions. The true cause of inversions is a cycle that adds in extra pivots, from time to time, to the 
main cycle. Inversions are nature’s way of keeping all the cycles in sync.

--- PAGE 26 of 27 ---

In my almost 18 years of helping people I have come to the conclusion that the absolute most 
important determining factor to your success is your own personal vibration, indeed, the most critical 
factor! 
     When one reads traditional history of this planet it is a sad narration of wars and absurd misery. This 
is in part due to a low vibration that the planet had been vibrating to, which I cannot get into the causes 
of here and now, due to space limitations. (see the must read “Power vs Force” previously 
recommended). The uplifting vibrations currently hitting the planet will continue. You have felt these 
but possibly did not know what was occurring.  
     Have you felt recently that there just is not enough hours in the day? Have you felt that time seems 
to go by faster? Well you are not alone! These feelings are a direct result of the higher vibrations that 
have been hitting the entire Solar System. Be aware of people outside the Gann field who talk about 
vibrations, or personal vibration, like Markus Rothkranz and the life regenerator on YT, they may seem 
“odd” to you at first but they are “in the know”, as are many others. 
     It has been said that truth is stranger than fiction. Truth has a different vibration to it than non-truth. 
Non-truth is very low vibration whereas truth is extremely high vibration, you must learn to tell the 
difference. Take a few moments and try to distinguish the difference. Note that nay sayers and those 
that oppose are Low vibrational. Truth never opposes. 
     The Law of Attraction is based off like attracting like. If you fear something it’s on its way! Because 
truth attracts truth, the more truth you know, the more truth you speak, the more REAL truth comes to 
you….it is LAW. Telling anything that is un-truth has the result of lowering the vibration of the individual.  
     Years ago, before I became fully aware of personal vibration I met a woman we will call Crazy Connie, 
who was, in short a con artist. Later I would be warned of such and take action to distance myself. 
Planetary Cycles can temporarily lower your vibration and while under such I met Crazy Connie. To the 
day, when the cycle was over, Crazy Connie got out of my life. As stated she was a bit of a con artist and 
had been for a number of years. Even though she was older than forty her parents continued to bail her 
out of any trouble she got into. She told me she had had 16 medical surgeries and currently had a kidney 
stone which she was hospitalized for, I later verified this. What we have here dear reader is natural law. 
Crazy Connie was indeed a con artist but by far the target of her sinister doings was herself. Because she 
was unaware of natural law she was only stealing from herself! Yes, indeed, in looking back Crazy Connie 
was her own worse victim! 
     This universe demands payment for everything. No exceptions! Yesterday while eating breakfast I got 
into a discussion with a couple waitresses. One said she just got “stiffed” by two tables she had waited 
on. This occurred in America where the standard tipping rate is 15% and the waitresses depend on the 
tip! Let’s examine what really occurred here in terms of natural law. The two groups of people who did 
not leave a tip got the service of the waitress for nothing. I would estimate her services were worth 5-10 
dollars. Those people figured they were saving money, being frugal or whatever. A sum of 50 to 100 
dollars will be extracted from them, for this, at a later date. The waitress who got “stiffed” either did 
something in the past to where she got something for nothing and it was being extracted, maybe even 
in an ongoing basis or if this was not the case the universe will pay her 50 to 100 dollars at a later date 
to square it. A true millionaire knows that revenge of any kind is a suckers’ game, because of natural

--- PAGE 27 of 27 ---

law. Contrast what the people did who stiffed the waitress to how the millionaire in “Rich Dad, Poor 
Dad” would have behaved, or how the millionaire in “The Instant Millionaire” would have behaved.  
     In looking back over my almost 18 years of helping people in this field I feel strongly that one’s ability 
to truly research is an important element. Back in the 1980’s a movie came out called “Indiana Jones 
and the Raiders of the Lost Ark”. In it Dr. Jones goes after all these relics, through thick and thin. Dr. 
Jones had a lot of “drive” for these relics. Picture yourself as Dr. Jones (re-watch the movie if you need 
to) and instead of going after relics, see yourself going after knowledge! Dr. Jones always seemed to 
come out ahead because he had better knowledge and a higher vibration! Get it! 
     Well, I leave the beach next week so I want to go enjoy it on a more personal level. I sacrificed much 
of my personal beach time to help you on your path. This work will be distributed for free once I return 
and the typist types it up.  
     You, dear reader, have gotten something for nothing. In order to square it, you should give to your 
favorite charity, or do a random act of kindness for someone else. This author will refuse any 
compensation. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
    The purpose of this writing is to instruct.  It is different than most writings you are used to and no 
effort was made to change that.  It is meant to work on multiple levels simultaneously.  It should be read 
and re-read because it contains much that this author believes in valuable.  It should be put down for a 
day, a week, a month, or a year and be re-read, as new light will dawn. 
  For some this work or writing will be an invaluable aid, which will lead to success and I will see you on 
the beaches of the world!!!