================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 682120178-J-M-Hurst-Profit-Magic-of-Stock-Transaction-Timing-Traders-Press-2000 (1).pdf
Total Pages: 215
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 215 ---

The Profit Magic
Of
STOCK TRANSACTION
TIMING
J.M.HURST
PRENTICE-HALL,INC.
Please note that page1 to 8. 12 & 18 are blank and not missing pages

--- PAGE 2 of 215 ---

the Profit Magic
of
STOCK TRANSACTION TIMING
J, M. Hurst
PRENTICE HALL, INC.
Englewood Cliffs, N.J.

--- PAGE 3 of 215 ---

THE AUTHOR
The attention of the author was first drawn to the stock market in 1960, Since
that time, he has “run the gauntlet” of conventional techniques from long-term invest¬
ment based on fundamentals, through technical and charting methods, to day-trading.
After early disillusioningexperiences,it was only natural to bring to bear the back¬
ground of analytical experience used to solve similar problemsin engineering. He began
to ask himself “why” stock prices change—and do so in such a baffling manner. Over
20,000 hours of research followed, in the course of which the principles on which this
book is based were developed and tested.
The author was educated at Kansas State, Brown, and Washington Universities-
majoring in physics. World War II and the advent of radar resulted in interest and
training in electronics and the theory of communications—which was of great value
later as price “signal” was studied in the presence of “noise.”
A 25-year career in aerospace engineering followed, which provided experience in
electronic system design, computerized techniques for extracting information from
time-series in connection with underwater communications, and numerous aspects of
space and missile systems analysis. It was here that appreciation for the power and
capabilities of numerical analysis and large-scale digital computers was developed-
background that came to fruition in the quest for a rational approach to investing.
Today, Mr. Hurst spends full-time at market research, convinced that remarkable
new rewards await the patient worker.

--- PAGE 4 of 215 ---

How This Book Can Boost Your Profit Performance
Can a $10,000 investment yield $1,000,000 in a year? In five years? If so, what
is the risk involved?
These are the kinds of questions to which this work is addressed. Such fantastic
results are possible in the stock market. Individual issues fluctuate widely enough and
often enough to permit this and more. Techniques are presented here that put an aver¬
age yield on invested capital of 10% per month well within the realm of possibility.
Compounding profits at this rate, such a yield can return $1,000,000 on a $10,000
investment within 50 months!
An actual trading experiment will be described using these principles which pro¬
duced an 8.9% yield per transaction—every 9.7 days. Such a yield, if continued,
compounds $10,000 to $1,000,000in 15 months.If such results can be attainedin the
market — why isn’t everyone doing it?
The answer is complex, but the elements are simple: effort, knowledge, and
psychological barriers. Any goal this worthwhile requires time and effort. Most in¬
vestors,
amateur and professional,
do not have the kind of analytical background
needed to shear through rumor, opinion, and adage to get at the basis of why stock
prices change. And finally, even with knowledge in hand, many investorslack training
in the emotion-logic balance required for success.
Nevertheless, all of these obstacles can be overcome.It is the purpose of this book
to provide you with the essentials. The results are yours if you care to apply yourself
with sufficient intensity. Investment operations will be presented here in a deliberately
unorthodox manner. We will turn our backs firmly on all cliches, adages, and market
lore that will not withstand critical scrutiny. Where necessary, we will not hesitate to
form new ones that do fit the facts.
The results discussed were derived using the most modern available methods of
computerized data analysis and were researched for nine years before making their
debut here. However, the presentation is directed to all kinds of investors. The tech¬
niques involved are simple, are not overly time-consuming, and do not presuppose ex¬
tensive academic background. The work involved on your part is concerned with the
need to grasp and integrate an understanding of why stock prices change with the me¬
chanical transaction-timing techniques described.
9

--- PAGE 5 of 215 ---

10
How This Book Can Boost Your Profit Performance
You will find here that the big money in investing stems from the principle of
“profit compounding”—of short-term trades. It is further shown that this potential
cannot be exploitedin an optimum manner without a large improvement in transaction¬
timing capability, that cannot be achieved using traditional investment methods.
You will be guided through a plausible introduction to the basic tenets of price
change, an understanding of which is essential to the success of your operations in the
market. You will find that one particular element of the price change concept is ideally
suited to the improvement of transaction timing.
You will see demonstrated dramatic new transaction methods which can result in
startling potential. These are simple to apply and can be handled by anyone who will
take the time to learn what they are and why they work.
You will be exposed to:
• A concept of profit maximization.
• A model of stock pricemotion with prediction implications.
• An explanation of why chart patterns form-and how to use this knowledge to your
profit.
• Step-by-step methods for using the price-motion model to generate definitive “wait,”
“buy,” “hold,” “sell,” “sell short,” “cover short,” and “protect profit” signals.
• An explanation of why moving averages work and how to design your own for use in
transaction timing.
• A complete trading method: how to select issues, how to analyze them for action
signals,andhow to improve your chances of turning and keeping a profit.
• The extent to which you should be concerned by chance factors; whether or not you
should sell in case of war or financial crisis.
•The reasons why psychological considerations can affect your profits and what you
can do about it.
• An introduction to numerical analysis and spectral analysis,upon which the results in
the book are based.
The problems of trading techniques and methods are dealt with directly. As a side
benefit (and confined chiefly to the Appendix), enough in the way of methods, results,
and references is included to permit those so inclined to repeat and carry forward the
research on which the book is based.
Good luck, and large and consistent profits!
J.M. Hurst

--- PAGE 6 of 215 ---

Acknowledgments
This book is a strange entity—almost an afterthought. For the real effort involved
was not in the writing, but in the years of experience and research that went before. As
a result of those years, the book almost wrote itself. It is only natural, therefore, that
the author’s obligations stem mostly from “before"-and are literally beyond ful¬
filling. Prom the host of those that shaped background, finned ideas, and lent moral
support, a few can be singled out, however.
What value an understanding wife? How can thanks be expressed to mine for the
patience and fortitude required through endless evenings and weekends whenIwasnot
there to share life, but was lost in intricate manipulations of numbers, ideas, and other
intangibles of seemingly dubious work-a-day value? To Pat also go thanks for the mid¬
night typing sessions which ultimately resulted in not only a finished manuscript but
also in my graduation from the “single finger’ to the “two finger” stage of expertise.
Along the way there were also several who contributed hard-wrested time from
family affairs, laboriously collecting data to be later digested by computer, or slaving
under a draftinglight with slide-rule in hand. Dutch Fink and Wally Dunn will recognize
the characterization.
Stan Levine read and constructively criticized the manuscript in its most
embryonic form—and still had words of encouragement to offer.
Bart, Eric, Gordon, John, and Juanita all shared the excitement, labor, and
tension of the “trading experiment’-while Fred Kayne and Tim Buginas never
faltered in their moral (and other) support. When photo work was required,it was Doug
and Sheri Edwards who came to the rescue.
It was Gian Rende who endured the stress and strain of the final critical review of
the manuscript, which resulted in a number of significant and worthwhile alterations.
To each and all,heartfelt thanks!
11

--- PAGE 7 of 215 ---

Contents
HOW THIS BOOK CAN BOOST YOUR PROFITPERFORMANCE
9
1.
MAXIMIZE YOUR PROFITS
21
Where the MagicIs
21
To Trade or to Invest
22
The Most Dollars in the Least Time
22
How the TradingInterval Affects Profits
23
AddingMagic by Compounding
26
Maintaining 100%Investment
26
Four Steps to Riches
26
2.
TIMING IS THEKEY
28
SomethingNew and UnconventionalIsRequired
29
What Makes Prices Change
30
The Impact of Historical Events
30
The Source of Trends
30
“X”Motivation - and What It Does to Prices
31
How Cyclicality ExpressesItselfin the Market
31
The Summation Principle
32
The Commonality Principle
32
The VariationPrinciple
32
The Nominality Principle
33
The Proportionality Principle
33
The Significance of Cyclicality
35
How to Go About Observational Analysis
36
“Nesting” Envelopes Upward
38
“Nesting”Down
39
Using Expanded or Contracted Data
40
ExtractingCyclic Model Elements
44
Cyclicality in Individual Issues
44
How Synchronization Is Expressed
48
SummingIt All Up
48
3.
VERIFY YOUR CHART PATTERNS
51
Why Trend Lines and Channels Form and Repeat
52
Where Head and Shoulder Patterns Come From
52
13

--- PAGE 8 of 215 ---

14
Contents
About Double Tops and Bottoms
57
The Significance of Triangles
57
How to Tell in Advanceif a Chart Pattern Will “Fail’
59
UnderstandingOther Chart Patterns
61
How Cyclicality GivesMeaning to Chart Patterns
61
The Significance of Moving Averages
62
Why fen- and 30-Week Moving Averages Are Useful
64
How toPlot and Interpret a Moving Average Properly
65
How a Moving Average Can Aid Cyclic Analysis
65
Summarizing Chart Patterns
66
4.
TIMING YOUR BUYS WITH GR APHICS
68
Prediction by Graphics
68
How to Construct Curvilinear Envelopes
69
Prediction of Price TurnsUsing Envelopes
70
Use This Example as Your Channel Prediction Guide
71
Constructing the Dominant Channel
73
Findingthe Outer Envelope
74
Setting Up Price-TurnPredictions
75
The Kind of Results YouCan Achieve
76
How to Generate Graphic “Buy” Signals
77
What to Look For
78
Recognizing the “Valid Trend Line”
78
“Edge-Band” Transaction Timing
79
“Mid-Band” Transaction Timing
82
Points to Remember RegardingGraphic "Buy” Signals
85
5.
YOU’VE MADE SOME MONEY - HOW TO KEEPIT
86
Use of Logical Cut-Loss Criteria
86
Extension to Trailing “Sell” Signals
88
How to Construct SellingAnalogs
90
How to Make and Use Non-RealTime Envelopes
91
Selling Short
93
SellingRules to Remember
95
6.
COMPUTE YOUR WAY TO INCREASED PROFITS
97
Why YouNeed Computational Aids
97
How to Construct and Use Half-SpanMoving Averages
97
Other Uses for Half- and Full-SpanMoving Averages
108
Now Turn Your Moving Averages Inside Out
109
Use the Inverse Half-Span Average to Improve Your Timing
109
Try the Inverse Average in Other Ways
112
7.
HOW TO SELECT AND TRACK TRADING ISSUES
11'
Alternative Ways of Selecting Investment Vehicles
114
The Total ScanningConcept
115
MakingUse of Screening Criteria
116
SelectingCandidates for Volatility
117

--- PAGE 9 of 215 ---

Contents
15
Applying Stability Factors
118
A Wordof Caution and Emphasis
119
When You ShouldUse Alternative ScanningMethods
119
Take Advantage of the “Stable” Concept
120
How to Track Your Stable
121
SummingUp Selection and Tracking
122
8.
TRADINGBY LOGIC INSTEAD OFBY GUESS
The Tools at Your Command
123
The Anatomy of a Trade
124
Determining the “State of the Market”
124
Selecting the Issue
127
The Next Step Is Analysis
127
Forming the Valid Downtrend Line
131
ComputingPotential and Risk
131
A Model Transaction
132
A TradingExperiment
135
Prediction of the Averages
138
The Results of Industry Group Predictions
138
Specific Issues Involved
138
Conclusions
139
9.
WHY STOCK PRICES CHANGE
How Decision-Making Enters the Picture
142
UnderstandingIrrational DecisionProcesses
144
What You Should Know About Fundamental Factors
145
How Company-Related Fundamentals Affect Prices
146
The Influence of Broad Environmental Factors
147
Should You Sell in Event of War?
147
What About Currency Devaluations?
147
How National Crisis Should Affect Your Decisions
149
How the GNP Affects theMarket
149
Now Compare Cyclicality vs. History!
151
The Impact of the Fall of France
151
Here is How Long-Range Cyclicality Affects the Market
154
SummarizingPrice Change Causes
157
10.
PITFALLS AND HOW TO AVOID THEM
Why the Unexpected Occurs
159
Recognizing Psychological Barriers
160
Counteracting the Outside Influence
160
OvercomingGreed
162
Beat the “Persimmon Effect”
163
The Bugaboo of Time Distortion- and What to Do About It
164
Dealing With “Scale Effect”
165
Combating Emotional Cyclicality
166
In a Nutshell
167
123
141
158

--- PAGE 10 of 215 ---

16
Contents
11.
SPECTRAL ANALYSIS- HOW TO DOIT AND WHAT IT MEANS
168
Why Numerical Analysis
169
The Meaningof a Frequency Spectrum
169
How to Do Fourier Analysis
171
Assembling Your Data
171
Separating Your Data Into Two Sequences
172
Determining the Frequenciesin Your Analysis
172
Now Compute the Corresponding Amplitudes
173
How to Get Composite Amplitudes
175
The Kind of Results You Can Expect
175
How Numerical Filters Can Help You
175
What You Must Know About Filter Operation
176
The Part of "Weights” in Numerical Filters
177
How to Design Your OwnNumerical Filters
178
Applying Your NumericalFilter toStock Prices
182
Take Advantage of CurveFitting
183
Fit Your Data With a Straight Line
184
How to Use Other Kinds of Curve Fitting
185
SummarizingNumerical Analysis
185
APPENDICES
W.
I.
THENOT-TO-BE-EXPECTED “ORDER” OF SPECTRAL RELATION¬
SHIPSINSTOCK PRICEDATA
188
The Implications of Fourier Analysis of Stock Prices
188
Course Frequency Structure
190
Fine Frequency Structure
190
Amplitude-Frequency Relationships
191
The Use of Comb Filters
191
The VariablesInvolved
196
Best Estimate of SpectralLine Spacing
196
The Line Spectral Model
199
II.
EXTENSION OF "AVERAGE” RESULTS TO INDIVIDUALISSUES .. .201
A Basis For the Principle of Commonality
201
Spectral Signatures,Fundamentals, and Time Synchronization
201
III.
THE SOURCE AND NATURE OF TRANSACTIONINTERVAL
EFFECTS
204
Theoretical Yield-Rate Maximums vs. Transaction Interval
204
The Impact of Compounding
204
The Effect of SinusoidalRate Summation
206
IV.
FREQUENCY RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS OF A CENTERED
MOVING AVERAGE
207
Response Derivation
207
Response Characteristics
207
Application Implications
207

--- PAGE 11 of 215 ---

Contents
17
Response of the Inverse Centered Moving Average 210
V.
PARABOLIC INTERPOLATION
212
Three-Point Interpolation
212
Equation Derivation
213
VI.
TRIGONOMETRIC CURVEFITTING
215
Generalized Least-Square-Error Methods
215
Solving for Frequency
216
Computing Amplitudes
217
DeterminingComposity Amplitudes and Phases
217
BIBLIOGRAPHY
218
INDEX
220

--- PAGE 12 of 215 ---

List of Illustrations
Figure 1-1.
Figure 1-2.
Typical Weekly "High-Low”Chart
• 24
Ideal Transaction Timing
• 25
FigureII-l.
The Magnitude-Duration Relationship
• 34
Figure II-2.
Price Fluctuations in TheDow Average
• 36
FigureII-3.
A Constant-Width Envelope: The StartingPoint in
Observational Analysis
• 37
FigureIM,
NestingEnvelopes
• 39
Figure II-5.
Another Envelope Technique
• 40
Figure 11-6.
An Example of Short-Duration Cyclicality
• 41
Figure II-7.
Figure II-8.
The Longer Duration Cycles RequireMonthly Data
• 42
TheInfamous “Bull-Bear” Cycle
• 43
FigureII-9.
The Time-Persistence of Cyclicality
• 44
Figure 11-10.
The Principle of Variation at Work
• 45
FigureII-l J.
Cyclicality andNumerical Analysis
* 46
Figure 11-12.
Before Envelope Analysis
• 46
FigureII-l3.
Figure 11-14.
Envelopes and StandardPackaging
• 47
Nesting Down
• 47
Figure 11-15.
Nesting Up
48
Figure II-l6.
Commonality and StandardPackaging • 49
FigureIII-l.
Channel Formation
• 53
Figure HI-2.
Adding Another Component
• 54
FigureIII-3.
The SummationPrinciple Applied
• 54
Figure III-4.
How Head and Shoulder Patterns Form
• 55
Figure III-5.
True Channels Are Curvilinear
• 56
Figure 111-6,
The Effect of Cycle Timing Change
* 57
Figure UI-7.
FigureIH-8.
How Double Tops (and Bottoms) Are Formed
• 58
How Triangles Come About
• 58
Figure 1II-9.
Triangle Analysis in Perkin-Elmer
• 60
Figure III-10.
FigureIII-l1.
Moving Averages Versus Time-Span - 63
“Centering” a Moving Average
• 66
Figure IV-J.
PlottingHelps- But Not Enough
• 73
Figure IV-2.
A First Envelope Adds Visibility
• 74
Figure [V-3.
A Second Envelope Clarifies thePicture Further
• 75
Figure IV-4.
Rough Prediction Using Envelopes
• 76
Figure IV-5,
How Results Compare WithPrediction
• 77
Figure IV-6.
RefiningPredictions — By Going to Daily Data
• 80
19

--- PAGE 13 of 215 ---

20
List of Illustrations
Figure IV-7.
The First Valid Downtrend Line
• 80
FigureIV-8.
The Second Valid Downtrend Une - 81
Figure IV-9.
The Buy Signal- and Profits in thePocket!
• 82
Figure IV-10. Triangle Resolution —and aMid-Channel Buy Signal
• 83
Figure V-l.
A Triangle Resolution "Hold” Signal
• 88
Figure V-2.
Valid Uptrend Lines — and a “Sell” Signal
• 91
Figure V-3.
Non-Real-Time Envelopes
• 94
Figure VI-1.
Using the Half-Span Average to Predict
♦100
Figure Vl-2.
A Half-Span Average “Sell” and “SellShort” Signa!
• 102
Figure VI-3.
The Next Prediction ’ 103
Figure Vl-4.
A Half-Span Average “Cover Short” and “Buy” Signal
• 104
Figure VI-5.
A Half-Span Average “Hold Long” Signal
• 105
Figure VI-6.
The Resulting “Sell” and “SellShort” Signal
• 106
Figure Vl-7.
A Half-Span Average “HoldShort" Signal
• 107
Figure VI-8.
The Inverse Half-Span Average
♦110
Figure VIII-1. Analyzing theDow
• 126
Figure VIII-2. “SettingUp” Screw and Bolt
• 128
Figure VIII-3. The Weekly PredictionPlot
• 129
Figure VIII-4. The Daily PredictionPlot
• 130
Figure VII1-5. 49.7% Profit in 57 Days
• 133
Figure VIII-6. Predicting Short-TermMovesin the Dow
• 136
Figure VIII-7. The Techniques at Work on Group Averages
• 137
Figure VIII-8. Another Group-MovePrediction *137
Figure VIII-9. Analysis of Buy-Sell Recommendations -139
FigureIX-1.
How Prices Fluctuate
• 142
FigureIX-2.
How History Does Not Influence theMarket!
148
Figure IX-3.
Which Came First: The Dow “Chicken” or the GNP “Egg”?
150
FigureIX-4.
History,the Market, andCyclicality
• 152
Figure XI-1.
A Typical,Digital-Filter Response Curve
• 179
Figure XI-2-
How to Control “Error”ina DigitalFilter
• 180
Figure AI-1.
44 Years of Market Cyclicality
• 189
Figure AI-2.
SettingUpOverlapping Band-Pass Filters
•192
Figure Al-3.
Typical “Comb” Filter Results
• 193
Figure Al-4.
The Incredible Frequency-SeparationEffect!
194
Figure AI-5.
The “Line” Frequency Phenomena
195
Figure AI-6.
SmoothingFiltered Outputs
• 197
Figure AI-7.
Best Estimate of Line-Spacing
• 198
Figure AI-8.
Low-Frequency Portion: SpectralModel • 199
Figure AII-1. The Law of Commonality: Generalized
• 202
Figure AIII-1. Why the TradingIntervalMust Be Short
• 205
Figure AIV-1. How a Moving Average Works ’ 209
Figure AIV-2. How An Inverse Moving Average Works
• 210

--- PAGE 14 of 215 ---

chapter
one
Maximize Your Profits
•Where the Magic Is
•To Trade or to Invest
* The Most Dollars in the Least Time
•How the Trading Interval AffectsProfits
•Adding Magic By Compounding
•Maintaining 100% Investment
•Four Steps to Riches
WHERE THEMAGICIS
“Stock PricesFluctuate”
This statement may describe the only stock price characteristic on which any two
students of the market willunequivocally agree!
It’s a mighty important truism, however—for onit rests a solid fact: More money
can be made faster from these price fluctuations than in nearly any other way known
to man—provided you own a crystal ball which tells you when the fluctuations will
occur.
There is another truism which even tells one how to turn on the Golden Stream:
“Buy low and sell high.”—Or does it? How low is “low,” and how high is “high”?
Phrased differently: when is “low” and when is “high”?
It can be seen from the preponderance of “whens” in these all-important
questions that the faucet handle is labeled “Timing.”
Very RealMagic Lies in Transaction Timing!
But—given timing capability-a whole new concept of profit maximization
becomes possible, in which two other factors are nearly aspotent We shall be dealing
in this chapter with the concepts of short-term yield and profit compounding, leaving
the major problem of timing for the rest of the book.
21

--- PAGE 15 of 215 ---

22
Maximize Your Profits
TO TRADE OR TO INVEST
The existence of exchanges and the resulting “liquidity” permit the phenomenon
of price fluctuation. In the days of the Hudson’s Bay Company—when there were no
exchanges-stock price motion as we know it could not exist. Today, stock prices
fluctuate by 10’s and 100’s of percent in value while dividend yields are measured in
single digits.
Given zero ability to anticipate price turns, risk is primarily concerned with the
cancellation of dividend benefits by capitalloss.In such a case, long-term investment is
the least-ride course of action, and freedom to select time of liquidation is limited.
Given 100% perfect ability to time transactions, trading risk becomes zero—and
investing can no longer be contemplated.- Such timing is, of course, unachievable, but
our goal in what follows approaches 90%. Under these conditions, the first tenet of a
profit-optimization philosophy is:
We are in the market to trade—leaving dividends to help offset margin interest.
THEMOST DOLLARS IN THE LEAST TIME
The next question is: “How much is a lot?” Suppose we discuss a friend who
bought 100 shares of stock at $20 and sold it at $40. He doubled his money, made
$2000 on a $2000 investment. Not bad. But suppose also we found out that he was 20
when he bought it and 40 when he sold it. His yield was 5% per year, and he might as
well have put his $2000 in the local bank!
Another friend bought a stock at 20 and sold it at 40 after holding it only one
year. He made 100% per year on his invested capital. Better? But suppose also we
found out that he couldn’t find another stock that he liked during the next 19 years.
He also made 5% per year over the 20-year period-and also should have stuck with the
local bank.
To maximize profits an additional principle isneeded:
We must measure success in investing in terms of profit per unit time over the entire time
ofinvestment activity.
To maximize this we must maximize percent per year return on each trade and approach
100%time usage of our funds as closely as possible.
We have now established the broad basis for a profit-maximization philosophy.
We know that we must:
1.Trade—not invest.
2. Maximize percent per year yield on each trade.
3. Seek 100% time investment of capital.
All well and good in theory—but how to go about it?

--- PAGE 16 of 215 ---

Maximize Your Profits
23
HOW THE TRADING INTERVAL AFFECTS PROFITS
We will now see that there are two vitally important parts that the concept of
“trading”
under
the
assumption
of
improved
timing
plays in
achieving
profit-optimization goals. Each of these has to do with the tradinginterval.
Turn your attention now to Figure 1-1. Here is a typical “high-low” chart for
Alloys Unlimited. The totalrange of the chart for about one year is from 12 to 49 3/4.
Suppose you had $10,000 and were astute enough to pick up the stock in November
1966 at 12. Holdingit throughDecember 1967, you then sellit at 49 1/2 and sell short
at the same price. You cover your short inMarch of ’68 at 32 1/4. With this ideal trans¬
action timing (never achievable in practice), you would net $44,780 in profit on a
$10,000 investment in 70 weeks for a yield of 333% per year. Aslovely as this sounds,
let’s try something else.
Look at Figure 1-2. This is the same chart with a few curvy dotted lines and
additional points on the chart emphasized by symbols. Looking at the curvy lines we
see that during the time you held the stock for the previous transaction there was a
number of price trendreversals. Each significant high and low is denoted by a letter on
the chart, associated with the price of the stock at that timein points and eighths.
Now suppose that you bought the stock at A (at 12) then sold and sold short at F
(39 3/8). You cover your short and buy again at G (30 5/8), then sell and sell short at
J (49 3/4). Finally you cover your short sale at K (32 1/8). What happens to profits?
Four transactions were required instead of two as before, but you netted $75,690 after
all transaction costs, instead of $44,780. The yield is now 562% per year on your
$10,000 initial investment.
Let’s go a step further. Buy at A (12) thensell and sell short at B (23 5/8). Cover
the short and buy at C (18 1/8), then sell and sell short at D (32 3/4). Cover this short
and buy again at E (24 5/8), then sell and sell short at F (39 3/8). Continuingin this
manner to K, you will find ten transactions to be completed. But this time you net
$290,000for a yield of 2150% per year on your money!
+
Let’s summarize. Over the same total time span, trading in the same stock,
assuming the same ground rules of perfect transaction timing(to permit comparison);
Two trades netted 333%per year
Four shorter trades netted 562%per year
Tenstill shorter trades netted 2150%per year
Now we’re getting close to the real reason why improvement in transaction timing
is worth all the effort we can put intoit. Even discounting the effect of the unrealistic
assumption of perfect timing in the examples, the timing improvement that made the
10 trades possible is well worth striving for. And it all comes about because improved
timing permits shortened trades!
The impact of trading interval is a dualphenomenon that holds true for allstocks.
Assuming accuracy of transaction timing, you will always make more money by short

--- PAGE 17 of 215 ---

[OCR] Maximize Your Profits

24

Typical Weekly “High-Low” Chart

--- PAGE 18 of 215 ---

[OCR] Maximize Your Profits 25

Ideal Transaction Timing

--- PAGE 19 of 215 ---

26
Maximize YourProfits
trades than by long ones. There are two reasons for this. One of these is intrinsic to the
nature of stock price moves and wifi be understood after formulation of the price¬
motion model of the next chapter. The other is a case of:
ADDING MAGIC BY COMPOUNDING
Far and away the most important factor in the overall profit-maximization
picture is the influence of profit compounding. After each successful trade more funds
are available for re-investment than before. Now the nature of the compound interest
law is such that the overwhelming contributor to capitalgrowthby this means is—you
guessed it: How often the compounding takes place. In short—how short the trades
are!
Let’s see how this works by juggling some numbers. WeTl start with the same
$10,000 as before and assume a modest 10% profit (average) on each trade. Assume
one trade per month At the end of a year you will have S31,380 for a profit yield of
313% per year. Take the same $10,000, compound it at the same 10% but do it twice
per month. At the end of a year you will have $109,150 or a profit yield of 1091% per
year! At once per week, you have $1,410,000 at the end of a year, or 14,100%!
Now it is seen why trading is so important if accurate timing of transactions is
consistently possible. Trading brings profit compounding into play—while sufficiently
accurate timing to permit short-term trading drastically amplifies the compounding
effect.This principle is soimportant to profit maximization that it deserves entry as the
next basic tenet: Profit optimization requires short-term trading.
•
MAINTAINING 100% INVESTMENT
All sounds pretty rosy so far—but how do we go about keeping funds working all
the time if we’re hopping in and out of trades every time we turn around? The answer
is rapid selection and analysis. We already know that we must find a way to drastically
improve transaction timing. We now know that we must do this in such a way that
issue selection and timing analysis can proceed simply and fast. If we can do this, we
can maintain a number of issues ready to go at all times—so that as one trade ends
there will be a minimum lapse of time before the next starts. Like timing accuracy, this
is a function of the rest of the book—and we make the assumption in this chapter that
it can be done.
For psychological reasons the timing techniques to be developed must be such as
to provide objective signals, created by actual price action. Such signals must be
predetermined by analysis-after which stock prices must be tracked as signals are
awaited.
FOUR STEPS TO RICHES
The preceding discussions provide the bits and pieces. Now in pulling them ah
together, we find that we require:

--- PAGE 20 of 215 ---

Maximize Your Profits
27
1. A profit-optimizinginvestment philosophy, the elements of which include:
• Trading-as opposed to investing
•Maximizationof percent per year yield on each trade
•Maximization ofpercent of time invested
•Minimization of the trading interval
• Optimizationof transaction timing.
2. Fast and simple issue selection
3. Fast and simple transaction-timing analysis
4. Accurate and timely stock price tracking
It is the purpose of the remainder of this book to weld these elements into a
practical method of extracting the profit magic from stock transaction timing!

--- PAGE 21 of 215 ---

chapter
two
Timing Is the Key
•Something New and Unconventional Is Required
•What Makes Prices Change
•The Impact of Historical Events
•The Source of Trends
•“X Motivation"—and What it Does to Stock Prices
•How Cyclicality Expresses Itself in the Market
•The Summation Principle
•The Commonality Principle
•The Variation Principle
•The Nominality Principle
•The Proportionality Principle
•And Now You Have a Price-Motion Model
•The Significance of Cyclicality
•How to Go About Observational Analysis
•Adding Envelope Visibility
•"Nesting" Envelopes Upward
•"Nesting" Down
•Using Expanded or Contracted Data
•Extracting Cyclic Model Elements
•Cyclicality in Individual Issues
•How Synchronization Is Expressed
•Summing It All Up
28

--- PAGE 22 of 215 ---

TimingIs the Key
29
Timing is the key-and the price-motion model described in this chapter is the
key to timing! Chapter One presented an investment philosophy whichis practical, and
capable of producing very large yields on invested capital—provided transaction-
timing accuracies of very high order can be achieved. Such accuracies simply are not
possible using traditional approaches to investing.
SOMETHINGNEW AND UNCONVENTIONAL IS REQUIRED
Only two basic reasons are advanced in traditional approaches for the price
motion of stocks:
1. Random events causing individuals and groups to make buy and sell decisions at
unpredictable times.
2. What investors think the impact of various “fundamental” factors may be on the
price of a stock.
By their nature,random events cannot be of aidin the prediction of price changes.
Foreseeable fundamental factors can theoretically help. In fact, researching these is the
traditional approach. This whole field has been thoroughly plowed for many years by
many competent people. It is highly unlikely that really significant transaction-timing
improvement is achievable by going back over this well-trampled ground. If we are to
achieve the needed help, it must come from another quarter entirely—and it will
therefore be unconventionalin nature.
This chapter supplies a third major reason for the price gyrations of stocks. For
convenience we will call it “X motivation” for the present. It is the existence and
nature of this factor upon which transaction-timingimprovement depends, for it is the
“somethingnew and unconventional” that is required!
The material in this chapter does not constitute proof of the existence of the
phenomena discussed. This will be developed bit by bit in later chapters in sufficient
depth to satisfy most individuals. Where more rigorous evidence is needed, but would
distract from the main theme (which is apphcations), references will be made to the
Appendix at the appropriate times. With thisinmind,let us state the objectives of the
current chapter:
• To define the nature of price motion. The statements of fact then become an
explanation or “model” of price change on which all specific timing methods will
depend.
•To present simple graphical and visual demonstrations of key elements of the
price-motion model. This is done for two reasons:
1. To provide you with enough evidence of model credibility to permit acceptance
of the existence and nature of “X motivation” etfects so that you can make use
of it without doubt or mental reservation.
2. To demonstrate for you the first of several graphic and visual techniques that
you must learn to use later for yourself.

--- PAGE 23 of 215 ---

TimingIs the Key
30
It should be borne in mind that something vastly unusual is necessary for our
purpose. Some of the conclusions reached will appear strange indeed to persons versed
in the traditional approach to socio-economic world-of-finance type problems. Such
readers are strongly urged to reserve judgment until the entire story is unfolded. “The
proof of the pudding is in the eating,” and you will find that the methods described
work!
WHAT MAKES PRICES CHANGE?
Decisions. Prices change because stock owners decide to buy or decide to sell at a
specific time. Which way prices move when buyer and seller face each other (through
exchange representatives) depends on how strongly the buyer feels about buying in
relation to how strongly the seller feels about selling. But decisions in themselves are
effects—not causes. Something causey an investor to decide to sell—and at a particular
time at that.
The cause of decisions is “motivation.” If a stockholder decides to sell for no
other reason than to raise money to remodel the house, the motivation can be classed
as random in nature. Millions of investors deciding to buy or sell for reasons unrelated
to the current or possible future price of a stock cause price changes due to random
motivation.
Themagnitudeofail such “randomly-motivated” price motionamounts to no more
than two %! This statement is the first element of our price-motion model-and will
appear incredible to many. Accept it for the moment, for it is a demonstrable fact.
And it is one you must keep firmly in mind as you trade and prices vary in an
apparently random manner.
THE IMPACT OF HISTORICAL EVENTS
One of the major misconceptions that must be dispelled is the conviction that
large-scale historical events dominate market activity. From all sides we are continually
presented with this or that national or world event which is credited as the cause of
current market behavior. In Chapter Nine it is shown that the facts just do not fit the
conviction! And if you believe that they do, you are effectively prevented from
applying a profit-optimized tradingphilosophy.
As a singular example, consider the case of the traumatic assassination of
President Kennedy. It is to be hoped that you were not one of those who sold at a loss
during the 15 minutes of panic following the announcement. Beginning immediately
thereafter, the market (as measured by the Dow-Jones 30Industrial Average) climbed
in nearly unbroken manner from the region of 710 to that of 1000!
The impact of wars, global financial crisis, and all other similar events on market
price action is utterly
negligible! This statement is the second element of our
price-motion model.
THE SOURCE OF TRENDS
Historical events represent only one type of so-called “fundamental” motivation
for the buying or selling of stocks. At least three other categories require consideration
for our model:

--- PAGE 24 of 215 ---

Timing Is the Key
31
• Events which can be anticipated and which influence the outlook for entire industry
groups.
• Events which can be anticipated and which influence the outlook for a single issue.
• Events (usually associated with a specific company) which cannot be anticipated.
Foreseeable fundamental events influencing investor thinking regarding industry
groups and specific issues account for 75% of the price motion of stocks. The effect is
long-term, smooth, and trend-like in nature.
Unforeseeable fundamental events influencing investor thinking principally with
regard to single issues add “specific randomness" to stock price motion. The rate of
occurrence is small, but the effect can be large and sudden.
These two statements are the third and fourth elements of the price-motion
mo4&l and can use amplification. Unlike historical events, investor motivation
stemming from fundamental factors affecting group and individual issues does influence
price-motion to a large extent. The effect is of the nature of an underlying trend
which is relatively smooth and slow to change direction-if the factors involved are
foreseeable. If not, the impact can be large and swift; this is the principal reason for
the need of “profit-preservation” type action signals. Unfortunately, the underlying
fundamental trend is of little use for our purpose, except to accentuate price moves
due to “X motivation.”
“XMOTIVATION’’-AND WHAT IT DOES TO STOCK PRICES
The forgoing price-motion elements must be understood and used in successful
trading—but they have virtually nothing to do with specific transaction timing! The
bulk of the remainder of this chapter will have to do with that price element which
does have to do with timing—namely. “X motivation.”
First of all, discard any reservations you may have regarding choice of names. The
all-important effect to be described exists and can be used—regardless of what causes
it, or what it is called. The choice of the classical symbol of the unknown, “X,” is
simply based on the fact that only theories exist regarding the cause. That the effect is
present and useful is not theory-and can in fact be proven beyond all question!
23% of all price motion is oscillatory in nature and semi-predictablei This is the
result of “X motivation”—and the statement constitutes the fifth tenet of our
price-motion model. The oscillatory motion involved is not simple—in fact it is
extremely complex. Fortunately for our purposes, a few outstanding traits characterize
it sufficiently to establish utility. We must now state and fully understand the
implications of these traits. The description of oscillatory or “cyclic” price action will
be referred to as the “cyclic model”-which in turn is one element only (though a
very important one) of the overall price-motion model.
It is absolutely essential to your further progress that you gain a complete and
fundamental grasp of the cyclic nature of this 23% of all price action! The facts are
straightforward and simple—but elemental in their significance.
HOW CYCLICALITY EXPRESSES ITSELF IN THE MARKET
Let us first clarify what we mean by “oscillatory” or “cyclical.” When a quantity
starts low, rises smoothly and without interruption to a high—then descends in the

--- PAGE 25 of 215 ---

Timing Is the Key
32
same manner and in the same length of time to the low it started from, we will say it
has completed one “cycle.” If it repeats this action, completing the next cycle in the
same length of time as before,
will call it both cyclic and periodic. The principal
characteristic with which we will be concerned is the time required to complete one
cycle, which we will call the “duration” of a cycle. The entire cyclic activity will be
referred to as a “component.”
Item A of Figure III-l is a representation of an ideal periodic-cyclic motion.
Variations from this ideal are possible and will be discussed as we go along.
THE SUMMATION PRINCIPLE
Cyclicality in price motion consists of the sum of a number of (non-ideal)
periodic-cyclic components. This is the first element of our cyclic “sub-model.”
Now. What do we mean by the “sum” of such fluctuations? Any desired number of
such cyclic components, each of which differs from the other, can be visualized. But
the differences must be foundin one or more of three descriptive quantities:
•The magnitude or size of the motion(as measured from peak to trough).
•Thelength of time required to complete one cycle-or the duration.
•The relative positionsin time of one motion with respect to another.
Two such waves (and a straight line), differing from each other in one or more of
the three ways described, are shown in Figure III-2, where the two periodic-cyclic
components are identified as A and C. Now at each point on the time scale, simply
add the vertical size of the two waves (and the straight line) at that moment and plot
the result. This is the shape of Figure III-3. You have accomplished the process of
summing two cyclicalities and a straight line. Any number of such fluctuations may be
so added together to get a new, composite wave form. You will be going through this
process over and over again in the cyclic analysis of your stocks—and should become
thoroughly familiar with it. This is the manner in which “X” motivated cyclicality
combinesin the price motion of stocks.
THE COMMONALITY PRINCIPLE
Summed cyclicality is a common factor among all stocks. This is the second
element of the cyclic model. Commonality of cyclic price motion is expressed in
several ways:
•Cyclicality exists in the price motion of all stocks.
• The cyclic components in each issue have similar durations.
•The highs and lows of cyclic fluctuations are time synchronized.
• The relative magnitudes of cyclic components are similar in all issues.
These four statements are part of the principle of commonality.
THE VARIATION PRINCIPLE
Price motion is different from issue to issue primarily because of differences in
the 75% of underlying fundamentally inspired movement. However, a secondary

--- PAGE 26 of 215 ---

Timing Is the Key
33
source of differences arises from variations from commonality in the cyclic action.
Each cyclic component varies from the ideal in that magnitude varies slowly as time
passes. As magnitude increases, duration also increases. As magnitude decreases,
duration also decreases. This concept of cyclic magnitude-duration fluctuation is the
third element of the cyclic model.
In addition to this primary source of variation, deviations from commonality also
contribute to differences from issue to issue. The most important such deviations
are as follows:
•Relative magnitudes and durations of cyclic components differ slightly from issue to
issue.
•Time synchronization is not perfect. A cyclic high or low in one issue will not
necessarily occur at exactly the same time asin another.
•Several components may tend to dominate in a given issue at a given time, while others
may dominate in other issues at the same time.
These statements are part of the third element of the cyclic model.
THENOMINALITY PRINCIPLE
The effect of the variation principle is to force the use of a nominal cyclic
duration in the quantification of the cyclic model. These nominal durations are an
element of commonality, and the deviations from these over a given range are the
expression of the principle of variation. The nominal durations of the principal cyclic
components are:
TableH-l
Years
Months
Weeks
18
9
4.5
3.0
1.5
18
1.0
12
.75
9
*
.50
6
26
*
.25
3
13
1.5
6.5
.75
3.25
.375
1.625
*The 26- and 13-week components
often appear in data as a combined
effect of 18-week nominal duration.
This tabulation is the fourth element of the cyclic model.
THE PROPORTIONALITY PRINCIPLE
The greater the duration of a cyclic component, the larger its magnitude. The
nominal relative relationship between these quantities is as shown in Figure II-1.

--- PAGE 27 of 215 ---

This statement and chart constitute the fifth and final element of the cyclic model.
And now you have a price-motion model!
You should read and re-read the features of this model until every aspect is
burned deeply into memory. The more or less mechanical timing techniques to be
presented based on this model will not in and of themselves be sufficient to assure
successful trading operations.Your degree of attainment of results will hinge in large
part on your ability to resolve ambiguities via your understanding of the elements of
price motion!
For convenience,
the elements of the price-motion model are compactly
assembled as follows:
I.
Random events account for only 2percent of the price change of the overall market
and of individual issues.
II.
National and world historical events influence the market to a negligible degree.
III.
Foreseeable fundamental events account for about 75% of all price motion. The
effect is smooth and slow changing.
IV.
Unforeseeable fundamental events influence price motion. They occur relatively
seldom, but the effect can be large and must be guarded against.
V.
Approximately 23% of all price motion is cyclic in nature and semi-predictable
(basis of the “cyclic model”).
VI.
Cyclicality in price motion consists of the sum of a number of (non-ideal)
periodic-cyclic “waves” or “fluctuations” (summation principle).
VII.
Summed cyclicality is a common factor among all stocks (commonality principle).
Cyclic commonality expresses as follows:

--- PAGE 28 of 215 ---

TimingIs the Key
35
* Existence in all issues
• Similar durations
•Similar relative magnitudes
• Time synchronization
VIII. Cyclic component magnitude and duration fluctuate slowly with the passage of
time. In the course of such fluctuations, the greater the magnitude, the longer the
duration and vice-versa (variation principle). In addition, issue-to-issue variation
expresses as deviation from commonality as follows:
•Deviationsin relative magnitude and duration.
•Imperfect time synchronization.
•Differences in component dominance.
DC.
Principle of nominality: an element of commonality from which variation is
expected.Nominal cyclic component durations are shown in TableII-l.
X.
The greater the nominal duration of a cyclic component, the larger the nominal
magnitude (principle of proportionality). The relationship between the two is
illustratedin FigureII-l.
The above ten statements constitute the formal, quantitative, price-motion model.
Because of its importance, let us restate the model qualitatively in homely terms for
additional clarity.
Visualize a general tendency to change slowly and smoothly because of basic
fundamentals. Mix in occasionally
a bit of short-term, sometimes quite sharp,
price motion due to specific and unforeseen fundamental developments. Conceive of
all of this so far as causing about 75% of all price change, but as still being a generally
smooth situation (few fluctuations). Now stir in a little random action. Superimpose
the sum of 12 cyclic motions totaling some 23% of all price change. Imagine the longer
duration elements of this motion as being largest in size also. Cause each of these to
fluctuate slowly in magnitude and duration. Now have the whole mix influence human
decision-making processes, en masse. The resulting buy and sell decisions terminate in
purchases and sales-which in turn reflect changing prices. And there you have it: A
simplified
explanation (or
model) of stock
price
fluctuations-w/th predictive
implications!
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF CYCLICALITY
“Stock Prices Fluctuate”
They certainly do
and we now know that they do so in a reasonably ordered
manner!
“Buy Low and Sell High”
The key to transaction timing is in knowing when is low and when is high. The
price-motion model elements promise us this knowledge—as exact as our ability to
untangle the 1 2 periodicities of the model as time goes along. This can never be done

--- PAGE 29 of 215 ---

36
TimingIs the Key
precisely. However, techniques will be developed in later chapters which convert the
imperfect predictions possible into precise action signals. The expectations for being
completely incorrect are about 10%, and even this error factor can be effectively
prevented from causing significant loss. The remaining 90% of correct action signals is
more than sufficient to bring into prominence the profit compounding principle of
Chapter One.
HOW TO GO ABOUT OBSERVATIONAL ANALYSIS
We will now go into the first and most elemental method of determining the
status of cyclicality at any given time. This is an essentia! first step in “predicting”
what is likely to occur in the future. This will be done by illustrating key points of the
cyclic model. (The remaining elements of the price-motion model are discussed in
Chapter Nine and the Appendix.) A dual purpose is served in this approach: you can
see for the first time the elements of the model in operation, and the techniques used
will be needed later as you analyze the market and individual issues for yourself.
Let’s first of al! take a look at cyclicality in the Dow-Jones 30 Industrial Average
(DJIA). Figure II-2 is a weekly high-low chart of the DJIA from early 1965 through
early 1969. Prices have certainly fluctuated during this period, ranging from a high of
1001.11 in February 1966 to a low of 735.74 in October of the same year. Our
objective is to extract as much cyclic information as possible from this chart, using the
expectations of the cyclic model as a guide.
Price Fluctuationsin The Dow Average

--- PAGE 30 of 215 ---

TimingIs the Key
37
Now look at Figure 11-3. This is the same chart except that a smooth envelope has
been drawn surrounding the data. Do not be overly concerned just here about the
mechanics of constructing this envelope. This will be covered in detailin Chapter Four.
Suffice it to say that the envelope is unique and is constructed according to fixed rules.
It encloses all of the data on the chart (with the exception of the peak of the action of
one week inMay 1968), and is uniformly and precisely the same vertical thickness over
the entire span of time represented. You will be making much use of such envelopes
later because construction of such an envelope is always the starting point for
observational cyclic analysis.
Now notice that the envelope boundaries are contacted (or approached closely)
by the data only in certain spots. These are identified in Figure II-3 by letters. In
short, prices gallop back and forth within the envelope—and the points of actual or
near contact represent highs and lows of one of the cyclic components we re interested
in.
—
FIGURE n-3
^E
A Constant-Width Envelope: The StartingPointInObservational Analysis
Continue the analysis by counting the number of weeks between lettered lows.
Lows are always preferable for this purpose since you will find them to be better
defined than are the highs. The results can be tabulated asshown on the following page.
Notice the decline in duration between points B-C, C-D, and E-F. These are
examples of magnitude-duration fluctuation (the variation principle), as expectedfrom
the cyclic model. Of the ten cyclic samples available, ignore the obvious variants-and
average the remaining seven durations. The result is a nominal cyclic duration of
21.428 weeks. This is the current time expression in the DJIA of the 26-week nominal
duration cyclic component of the price-motion model.Dow record the variation from

--- PAGE 31 of 215 ---

38
Timing Is the Key
Time Period
Duration (weeks)
A-B
23
B-C
14
C-D
9
D-E
21
E-F
12
F-G
22
G-H
24
H-l
17
1-J
20
J-K
23
average of the seven samples, which is +2.572 and-4.428 weeks. Average these limits to
obtain ±3.5 weeks. In view of the relative inaccuracy of the method, round off
decimals—and your expectation is for 21.4 ± 3.5-week cycles to continue to make an
appearance in the near future in this indicator. These results must, of course, be
subjected to continuous up-dating since the principle of variation is in constant
operation. One final bit of very useful information can be obtained from this exercise
by forming a center line mid-way between envelope bounds. The significance of this
line is that it represents the sum of all cyclic components of duration longer than 21.4
weeks—added to any fundamental trends existing at the time.
“NESTING” ENVELOPES UPWARD
Using the same data, let us now apply the same technique to extract information
regarding the next longer duration cycle of the model.
Turning to Figure II-4, we see the same chart as before, but now a second
envelope has been added. The characteristics of this one are exactly as before, except
that they apply to the first envelope, rather than to the original data.It is immediately
seen that the first envelope oscillates back and forth between the bounds of the
second, establishing contact at the lettered intervals. Proceeding as before, count the
weeks between lows. Two samples are available with durations of 67 and 75 weeks.
Averaging these produces 71 ± 4 weeks as the nominal expected duration and extent of
variation in the near future. The cyclic model calls for the presence of an 18-month
cycle. Eighteen months is 78 weeks—and the 71 ± 4-week fluctuation noted is the
counterpart of the 18-month component of the model for this period of time in the
DJIA.
We now have a set of “nested” envelopes, and the process of constructing a
second envelope about the first one we will call “nesting” upward. The mechanics of
envelope construction
does not permit
the existence of envelopes containing
fluctuations of duration between 21.4 and 71 weeks in this particular sample of DJIA
data. Noting this, and referring back to the cyclic model, you will see that a 9- and
12-month component appear to be missing. They are, in truth, present—but of such
small magnitude at this particular time as not to be “observationally significant.” This
is an example of the “dominance" characteristic of the principle of variation in action.
During this same period of time, the “missing” components can be found
dominant in other indicators and specific issues. Once again, a center line can be drawn

--- PAGE 32 of 215 ---

39
TimingIs the Key
NestingEnvelopes
between the bounds of the second envelope. The significance, as before, is the
representation of the sum of fundamental trends and all longer duration components
(in this case longer than 71 weeks). This type of information will be put to good use in
later chapters.
“NESTING” DOWN
After nesting upwards to the point where you run out of cyclic samples (as in this
case), the same data can be made to produce still more information by nesting down.
However, you will find that envelope smoothness deteriorates steadily as enclosed
cyclic durations decrease. Part of this is due to the use of weekly data, and can be
overcome by shifting to daily plots. But the bulk of the problem is intrinsic to the
expression of the principle of variation.
Accordingly, another technique is introduced that you will often find useful.
Let’s go back and re-examine Figure II-3. Observing the region of this figure between
letters F and G (lows of the 21.4-week cycle), we note that prices did not move
smoothly up and then down again, but did so in now familiar gallops.In fact, between
F and G, three such gallops are seen. What about G and H? Again three. BetweenH and
I the same occurs, except that the imagination is stretched a bit on gallops two and
three. But, betweenIand J, once again three movements are clearly noted.
Now the average duration of the F-G, G-H, H-I, etc. type movements was
previously established as 21.428 weeks. One third of this is 7.142 weeks. This is the
expression at this time in the DJIA of the (nominal) 6.5-week component of the cyclic
model.

--- PAGE 33 of 215 ---

40
TimingIs the Key
A third technique can be employed to provide additional estimate accuracy.
• Form a new envelope between the letters E and J of Figure II-5 by carefully connecting
each weekly low on the plot to its neighbor with short, straight lines to obtain the
bottom of the envelope.
•Similarly,connect the weekly highs to form the envelope upper bound.
The result is seen in Figure II-5 with all extraneous information removed—and the
fluctuations of interest are clearly seen. Now run a centerline through this envelope as
inFigure II-6 (where the lows of interest are numbered). Referring these back to a time
scale, weeks between each can be counted and averaged. The outcome—15 samples
with an average duration of 6.766 weeks. This is within 5.3% of the original estimate
based on one-third of the 21.4-week cycle—and is considered more accurate. The
average of the extremes of the deviation from nominality is ±.8 weeks.
USING EXPANDED OR CONTRACTED DATA
All components of the cyclic model which are present in this sample of the DJIA
between the nominal ones of 6.5 weeks and 18 months have now been identified. To
proceed further, the price action must be presented in a different form.
To extract still shorter duration fluctuations, daily data must be used. Any time
the price chart permits less than six or seven data points in the time span covered by
the durationof one cycle of a given component, the display must be expanded by going
to closer data spacing. To extract longer duration fluctuations, a longer time period

--- PAGE 34 of 215 ---

TimingIs theKey
41
AnExample Of Short-Duration Cyclicality
must be covered by the data. Effort can be minimized here by following the rule of a
minimum of six or seven datapoints per cycle. Any time yourun out of cyclic samples
in your data, it is time to contract your display (if you desire information on longer
duration cycles).
We will choose contraction for the purposes of further illustration.In Figure II-7,
the DJIA is extended into the past to May 1949 on a monthly basis. This plot is
constructed on a logarithmic rather than a linear scale. This device isuseful whenever
the sum of all trends and components longer in duration than the cycle of interest is
extremely steep.
The same plot is reproduced as Figure II-8, with the familiar constant-width
envelope added and distractions removed. Over this 20-year time period,four samples
of periodicity are present. The duration is 52 ±1 months. The cyclic model leads us to
expect a component of 4.5 years’ duration, or 54 months. We have obviously isolated
this (nominal) model component in our example. We will not proceed further with this
illustration of the cyclic model in action in the DJIA, since our purpose has been
served.
The procedure in such preliminary analysis is now clear. And the purpose is to
obtain dominant
component identification (using the cyclic model as a guide);
determine the near past nominal durations and expected variation; and pinpoint the
location in time of the last low of each component.The ways of using this information
to improve transaction timing will be made clear in subsequent chapters.
Before leaving the subject, two additional key .features of the model require

--- PAGE 35 of 215 ---

42
TimingIs the Key
i
L
ii
="
*Q
i
=.
—J≤o
1
—IX
pg
UI
<E
§
£
sa
s-
->2 ~
a
52
t
&
a
tna
g
§
-
MS“—
40s
—
=r
$a
9
^s.
-
§
g
8
=
o
ma
o o o o o
o
o
o
o
o o o o o
o
o
o
o
o a •
40
*>
ft
3
SO
Q
5
o3
£
<5*a
.2I
c

--- PAGE 36 of 215 ---

[OCR] 43

Timing Is the Key

apAD swag-tIng, snowreUy ayy

f}-—— SHLNON 25

OHH MHLNON
STWRILSNON! OF £0

SHLNON 29 T SHLNOW ES

9-0 3uNdId

SHLNOW IS:

Gr6t AVN
{

--- PAGE 37 of 215 ---

44
Timing Is the Key
demonstration. You should have a better idea of the characteristics of magnitude¬
duration fluctuation than can be gained via envelope analysis. The same is true for the
expectations of the principle of commonality.
EXTRACTING CYCLIC MODEL ELEMENTS
Envelope analysis is a simple and fast technique for determining present status of
cyclic components, but leaves much to be desired in the way of detail. To progress
further, the techniques of numerical analysis are required. You will never need to apply
these time-consuming methods as you trade, but you should be aware of their
existence and power. Chapter Eleven and the Appendix will make method and
function clear.
Using such techniques, the plot of Figure II-9 was prepared. Here, the 18-month
(nominal) cycle of the model has been cleanly extracted from the closingprices of the
DJIA over the time-period January 4, 1935, to December 28, 1951. Thirteen samples
are present with an average duration of 68.3 weeks. This compares with the two
samples previously seen in the 1965-1968 time period of 71-week duration. This is an
example of theprinciple of variation in operation over a long period of time.
20
JO
0
10
20
FIGURE 0-9
• \
*
x
'•S
1935 1936 1937 1938 »39 »40 »41 »42 »43 »44 »45 »46 1947 »48 »48 1950 1951
The Time-Persistence Of Cyclicality
Even more important, you can now get a much improved idea of the nature of the
magnitude-duration fluctuation phenomenon. Using the envelope technique on this
extracted fluctuation we arrive at the results of Figure 11-10. It is seen that such
fluctuation is slow and smooth. The rate of change is much slower than the individual
oscillations that comprise the envelope. This is very important, for it means that near
past nominal magnitudes, durations, and variations are unlikely to be much different in
the near future.
CYCLICALITY ININDIVIDUAL ISSUES
Model element demonstration to this point has employed only the Dow-Jones
Industrial Average. The principle of commonality assures us that the results hold
essentially true for all stocks, but neither this nor the extent of expected variation
from commonality has yet been illustrated.

--- PAGE 38 of 215 ---

TimingIs theKey
45
For this purpose, turn to Figure II-11. This is a weekly plot of Warner Company
(listed on the New York Stock Exchange) for the 1961-1963 time period. The
cyclicality that has been extracted usingnumerical analysis techniques is clearly visible
in the stock price as you compare the two. The following elements of commonality are
noted:
1. Magnitude-duration fluctuation.
2. Five samples are present, the last of which is foreshortened per the principle of
variation.
3. The remaining four average 18.5 weeks. This is the expression of the combined
effects of the 13-and 26-week componentsnoted in the model.
The principles of commonality and variation can also be demonstrated to some
extent using envelope analysis. For example, Figure 11-12 plots Standard Packaging
(New York Stock Exchange) from 5 May 1967 through 10 January 1969. Noting a
seeming regularity with two lows appearing in 1967 and three morein 1968, we apply
the constant-width envelope technique. The result is shown in Figure 11-13, sans all
extraneous information. Four samples are present, averaging 18.75 weeksin duration-
which we recognize as consistent with the cyclic model.
Noting again that progress of prices from low to peak of this component is not
smooth, we form a new envelope by connecting weekly lows and highs. The result of
passing a smooth curve through the center of this envelope is depictedinFigure 11-14.
This time 14 samples are present, with an average duration of 5.71 weeks. The ratio of
18.75 to 5.71 is 3.28,indicating once more the presence of approximately three of the
shorter duration cycles within the span of the longer one. The 5.71-week duration
compares favorably with the 6.766 number obtained for the DJIA in the same time
period—and demonstrates both the principles of commonality and variation for this
particular issue.
Contracting the data produces Figure 11-15. Here Standard Packaging is shown
from 9 April 1965 through 24 May 1968. The envelope technique reveals two samples
of 70.0-week average duration. The two samples taken for the DJIA in the same time
period averaged 71.0 weeks!

--- PAGE 39 of 215 ---

46
TimingIs the Key
Cyclicality AndNumerical Analysis
Before Envelope Analysis

--- PAGE 40 of 215 ---

[OCR] A ant

| i,
| Ww

Envelopes And Standard Packaging

--- PAGE 41 of 215 ---

48
TimingIs theKey
HOW SYNCHRONIZATIONIS EXPRESSED
One of the characteristics of the principle of commonality is the manner in which
cyclic component highs and lows occur at nearly the same time from issue to issue. We
can use Standard Packaging again to demonstrate this aspect of the cyclic model.
In Figure 11-16, Standard Packaging and the DJIA are plotted in a manner suited
for price-turn comparison. The data have been proportionally adjustedin this figure so
that the total price variation for each over this time period is identical. The timing of
all fluctuations of all durations is seen to be virtually identical. In fact, “where goeth
the Dow, there goeth Standard Packaging” would seem to describe the results with
considerable accuracy!
In spite of this, the principle of variation is seen at work in the gentle divergence
of the two price histories before and after the 65th week on the plot, even while time
synchronization is firmly maintained. The commonality of synchronization is more
broadly demonstrated in the Appendix.
SUMMING IT ALL UP
• A large percentage of the price motion of all stocks consists of the sum of a number of
periodic-cyclic “waves”
♦The waves in each stock have many common characteristics, including duration,
relative
magnitude-duration relationships, and
a
strong tendency
to
be
time
synchronized. This feature can be expressed as a principle of commonality.
•Deviations from commonality are minor and can be expressed as a principle of
variation.
• Very little of stock price change is randomin nature.
•Smooth, underlying trends are causedby fundamental factors related to the growth of
the economy and of specific industries and companies.
•Major historical events do not significantly influence the market.
• Relative independence of stock price fluctuations from random and historical events,
plus the periodic and common nature of the cyclic components permit timing analysis
on a purely “technical” basis.

--- PAGE 42 of 215 ---

Timing Is the Key
49
Commonality And StandardPackaging

--- PAGE 43 of 215 ---

50
TimingIs the Key
•A model of price motion can be constructed as the basis for such analysis. The
principles of summation, commonality, variation, nominality, and proportionality
describe the most important aspects of this model.
•The graphical method of data enclosure by special “envelopes” is a usefulmethod of
roughly determining the status ofcyclicality.
•The price-motion model permits the development of numerous techniques for refined
transaction timing which are described in later chapters. A firm understanding of the
nature and meaning of the price-motion elements of the model is essential to the
proper application of these techniques.

--- PAGE 44 of 215 ---

chapter
three
Verify Your Chart Patterns
• Why Trend Lines and Channels Form and Repeat
• Where Head and Shoulder Patterns Come From
• About Double Tops and Bottoms
• The Significance of Triangles
• How to Tell in Advance If a Chart Pattern Will "Fail"
• Understanding Other Chart Patterns
•How Cyclicality Gives Meaning to Chart Patterns
• The Significance of Moving Averages
• Why Ten-and 30-Week Moving Averages Are Useful
• How to Plot and Interpret a Moving Average Properly
• How a Moving Average Can Aid Cyclic Analysis
• SummarizingChart Patterns
In Chapter Two you were introduced to an unconventional concept of stock price
motion. Before applying
the resulting price-motion model you must develop
confidence in it—and that is part of the purpose of this chapter. If the "X
motivation” concept is valid, it must be able to explain the existence and reoccurrence
of common chart patterns-and why they impart information to the investor. Thus,
reconciliation of the model with the precepts of charting is strong evidence of the
validity of the model—which adds to confidence in usage.
The second purpose of the chapter is to show you how the price-motion model
can be used to resolve chart patterns. Such patterns can be used to help determine the
status of cyclic activity, and this in turn can be used to determine which way and when
price motion will go at pattern termination. For those of you that are unfamiliar with
chart patterns, reference is provided in the bibliography to several good books on the
subject.
51

--- PAGE 45 of 215 ---

52
Verify Your Chart Patterns
WHY TREND LINES AND CHANNELS FORM-AND REPEAT
These are two of the very most basic tools of the chartist. The chartist willnote
two or more consecutive fluctuation lows, and if each one occurs at a higher price
level, he will draw an “uptrend” line connecting or just below them. Similarly,he will
draw a “downtrend” line connecting or just above two or more consecutive fluctuation
highs when each successive high is at a lower price level. He will then draw upon the
adage that “trends tend to persist,” and expect the uptrend or downtrend to
continue-until the trend Une isbroken.
Furthermore, our chartist will often note a situation where prices are generally
trending in one direction or another, but appear to bounce back and forth between
two imaginary, parallel lines. He will draw these lines in on the chart and call them a
channel.
In Figure III-l we have extracted the simplest possible set of elements from our
model. One of our cyclic components (any one) is shown at “A.”It is assumed that all
longer duration components sum for the time being to the straight line at “B.” At each
point in time, the price values of “A” and “B” are added to get the resultant, “C.” As a
result of this highly simplified extraction from our model, both an uptrendline and an
uptrending channel are formed!
Trend lines and channels have often been describedin awe-filled tones, for it does
sometimes seem like magic when stock prices consistently reverse themselves at
channel or trend line boundaries almost as if these were very real constraints. At this
point, however, we can see that there is no magic to it at all: It is simply the natural
result of the existence of “X” cyclicality!
WHEREHEAD AND SHOULDER PATTERNS COME FROM
Now we will add just a little more complexity to our simulated price action. In
Figure III-2, we see two of the cyclic elements of our model at “A” and “C.” The
magnitude and duration relationships between these are approximately those that our
model says should exist between the 18-week and 18-month periodicities. As before,
we will not clutter up the picture with any other cyclic activity, and will assume that
all regularities of longer than 18 months duration sum to the straight line at “B.” Again
we will add the value of all three together for each interval of time and show the results
as Figure III-3. Quite a complex bit of price motion for such a simple beginning, isn’t
it? Imagine what it’s like with all 12 periodicities at work-and with fluctuation of
magnitude and duration added!
Now let’sput a few of the chartist’s favorite linesin placein Figure III-4.
Pay Dirt!
Almost everywhere we look we see a chart pattern of traditional significance! An
uptrend line and a downtrend line both appear. These are each parts of short up and
down channels respectively. Both downside and upside breakouts from trend lines are
present, and in each case forecast what the chartist says they should-a reversal of
trend! Another charting favorite also strikes the eye. The head and shoulder pattern is

--- PAGE 46 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
53
FIGURE IK-1
vw\
TIME
Channel Formation

--- PAGE 47 of 215 ---

54
Verify Your Chart Patterns
The Summation Principle Applied

--- PAGE 48 of 215 ---

a classic one with a slopingneckline. The downside breakthrough confirms the trend
reversal called by the previous breakthrough the uptrend line, and calls for further
downside activity. The oft-noted “return move” to or near the neckline is present,
followed (as per tradition) by further downside activity. All of this from an almost
ridiculously simplified version of our price-action model!
Let’s pause a moment and discuss what we’ve seen happen. Direct your attention
to Figure III-5. The simulated price motion of Figure III-3 isreproduced here, but this
time with our constant-width envelope of earlier chapters added. The constant-width
envelope phenomenon is seen to be a mandatory outgrowth of the cyclic model!
Obviously, when all fluctuations completely fill such an envelope over any given period
of time, the magnitude-duration fluctuations for the intra-channel cyclic component
must be nil for this time period. And indeed, this is exactly what Figure III-5 shows,
and exactly the way the simulated price motion was formedin this case! Furthermore,
when the fluctuations do not fill such an envelope, we are warned that such
magnitude-duration fluctuations are forming up.
Now note the overlay in Figure III-5 of the previously remarked up and down
trend lines and associated up and down channels. It is easy to see here that the
chartist’s trend lines and channels are simply straightened-out segments of our
constant-width envelope boundaries, which actually are curved! Clearly, when a longer
duration cycle than the one contained within the channel begins to turn over, our
curvilinear channel turns also, and prices quickly “break” through the chartist’s trend
lines and channel boundaries. His assumption, therefore, that this indicates a major
price reversal is founded on the facts that:
55

--- PAGE 49 of 215 ---

1. A long duration cycle has caused the effect, hence it will be quite long before the
previous trend is resumed!
2. A long duration cycle has large magnitude associated with it,hence the amount of price
motion in the reversal is apt to be quite large'.
56

--- PAGE 50 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
57
ABOUT DOUBLE TOPS AND BOTTOMS
But what, we ask, about a case where prices reverse without the formation of such
a pattern? Figure III-6 shows the segment of Figure HI-2 which contributed to the
formation of the head and shoulder pattern. Now note the dotted cyclicality in this
figure which is in every way identical to the one marked “A” except that the position
of each low is shifted slightly in time relative to the “A” cycle. Summing these as
before, we get Figure III-7. The result of this simple change is a double top, yet
another charting favorite!It becomes clear that whether a head and shoulder pattern or
a double
top
forms— or indeed, whether a head and shoulder pattern has an
up-sloping, horizontal, or down-sloping neckline—is dependent only upon the time
relationship between two cyclic components. It is also apparent that the same
reasoning holds true for inverted head and shoulders patterns, and for double bottoms!
In each case, the chartist notes the patterns and the most probable following action.
We now know why such patterns form (and regularly!) and what causes them. We will
see later how we can put this added knowledge to good use in transaction timing.
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF TRIANGLES
Let us now call into play one more element of the cyclic model. InFigureIII-8,
the sum of all components from Figure HI-2 that formed the left shoulder of Figure
The Effect Of Cycle Timing Change

--- PAGE 51 of 215 ---

55
Verify Your Chart Patterns
How Double Tops (And Bottoms) Are Formed
How TrianglesCome About

--- PAGE 52 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
59
ID-4 is shown as a dotted line. To this we will now add one more component- of still
shorter duration and, of course, of correspondingly smaller amplitude. For the first
time we will also assume the magnitude-duration fluctuation to be expected from the
price-motion model. Therefore, to the elements that formed Figure III-4, we have
added two additional ingredients:
1. A third cyclic component.
2.Magnitude-duration fluctuation—thus getting the simulation alittle closer to agreement
with our more complex model.
Once more we sum up each of the elements proposed to get the result at the top
of Figure III-8. This time we have a pattern which abounds on all charts. The chartist
variously refers to this type of formation as a “coil,” “triangle,” “flag,” “pennant,”
“box,” “diamond” or “wedge.” All are formed from cyclic elements in the same
manner. The differences
are
dependent upon the state of magnitude-duration
fluctuation of a short duration component at the time when the sum of all longer
duration components is pausing due to cyclicality. In each case, the rules of charting
which impute probabilistic follow-on to such patterns are based soundly upon the
existence and behavior of the cyclic elements of our model.
HOW TO TELLIN ADVANCEIF A CHART PATTERN WILL “FAIL”
Triangles may be formed also in much the same manner as double tops and
head-shoulder patterns. Let’s examine in some detail a specific case which is reported
in a popular book on charting. The stock isPerkin Elmer and the time period isMarch
through September 1961. This time a daily high-low chart is used so that we can see
the impact of shorter duration periodicities. Two triangles were shownin the book on
chartingin which this example appeared, and these are reproducedin FigureIII-9.
Now we must examine this chart carefully in the light of our model. Two samples
of a periodicity are shown with lows at A, B, and C. The average duration of these is
13.9 weeks, which we note is satisfyingly close to the 13-week nominal duration cycle
of our model. Each of these is seen to consist of three shorter duration elements, the
lows of which are shown on the figure as points 1 through 7. Six samples are present,
averaging 4.6 weeks. This is the 1961 time period equivalent of the nominal 3.25-week
component of our model. Each of these consists of two shorter duration regularities.
Twelve samples are present with an average duration of 2.3 weeks, again the 1961
equivalent of the 1.625-week nominal component of our model. This situation is a
good example of the deviations from model nominality that can be expected in
individual issues and for varying periods of time. Each of the 2.3-week durations also
shows a one-half duration cycle of 1.15 weeks average. This periodicity has not been
mentioned in our model as yet, except for the statement that such shorter duration
regularities exist.
Now inspect the small triangle at the top of the figure closely.It consists of three
cycles of the J.15-week periodicity! Magnitude variation is clearly evident here, with
the result being more properly described as the chartist’s “flag.” The breakout on the
downside denoted trouble to the chartist—as well it should! Let’s see what the cyclic
situation was at this point in time:

--- PAGE 53 of 215 ---

Triangle AnalysisInPerkin-Elmer
1. 13.9-weck cycle
2. 4.6-week cycle
3. 2.3-week cycle
4, 1.15-weekcycle
8 weeks along—harddown
3.8 weeks along—harddown
1.3 weeks along-andhard down
1.1 weeks along—andhard down
Isit any wonder that a downside breakout of the triangle occurred?
Actually, something else of interest should also be noted here. The charting rule
for such triangles is: The probabilities favor the continuation of the trend that
preceded the triangle formation. As pointed out in the book from which this example
was taken, this triangle represented a failure of charting expectations. No reasons for
such failures are usually postulated, but we can easily see how our new knowledge of
cyclicality allowed us to forecast this failure from a triangle! Such a capability adds
immensely to the utility of such chart patterns. Not only can we understandhow and
why they are formed (so they are no longer a mystery to us), but we can often read
much moreinto them than can the conventional chartist!
Now let’s look at the large triangle to the right of the chart. This one is formed in
a completely different way than the preceding one. The triangle is composed of one
and most of a second cycle of our 4.6-week periodicity. The 13.9-week cycle is going
over a top, and the same formation mechanics occur as in the case of double tops and
head-shoulder formations.It is only the particular combination of magnitude-dominant
cyclic durations, the time relationships between these, and the particular rate at which
the sum of all longer duration components is moving that make the formation appear
as it is.
6U

--- PAGE 54 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
61
If we were watching this triangle form, how would we analyze the situation? The
chartist would apply his probabilistic rule and say he expects a downside breakout —
and he would be right. Would we come up with the same conclusion?
1. 13.9-week cycle
7.4 weeks along—Aarddown
2. 4.6-week cycle
3.6 weeks along-Aaraldown
3. 2.3-week cycle
13 weeks along—hard down
4. 1.15-week cycle
bottomingout-flat to up
In addition to this we note that the preceding 13.9-week cycle has formed a lower
low. This tells us that the sum of all components with durations in excess of 13.9
weeks is also hard down. Under such circumstances we would positively predict a
downside breakout, and again be right! We see that our cyclic model has enabled us not
only to agree with the chartist when he is probabilistically correct, but also to
(correctly) disagree with him when he is wrong. In short, we can explain why such
patterns form, why they provide more right answers than wrong ones, andin addition,
reduce the number of times in which a wrong decision is made! We begin to see some
of the utility of our “X motivation” model.
The chartist’s patterns and our price model work hand-in-hand. The chart patterns
are an aid in calling our attention to specific cyclic activity. The chartist’s expectations
for the pattern may then be verified or repudiated, based upon cyclic considerations.
UNDERSTANDING OTHER CHART PATTERNS
To carry our comparisons further, let us now consider “V” top and bottom
patterns. These occur when an intermediate duration cycle tops or bottoms out in
perfect time synchronization with the next longer duration component. The “V” is
further accentuated when the next shorter duration cycle also tops or bottoms
simultaneously. In cases where four or five of these behavein this manner, the “V” can
be very exaggerated and sharp indeed!
Saucer formations, measured moves, gaps, islands, one-day reversals, and all other
well known chart patterns are as completely identifiable and explainable by cyclic
theory as are the patterns discussed. It would be a very good exercise for you, the
reader, to go through each of these situations, and prove this statement for yourself.
HOW CYCLICALITY GIVES MEANING TO CHART PATTERNS
But let’s move on to other areas of interest. One of the biggest difficulties in
charting to date consists of the inability of the chartist to answer the following
question: “How do you know which fluctuations (separated by how much time) to use
in settingup your chart patterns?”
We have already seen in preceding chapters that an envelope may be drawn about
any and all of our cyclic components. Just so, when a chartist draws a straight segment
of a channel or trend line (representing part of our cyclic channel), we may always find
other fluctuation lows or highs which define other channels or trend lines during the
same time period and for the same issue. Which of these has valid meaning? Certainly,

--- PAGE 55 of 215 ---

62
Verify Your Chart Patterns
at any given time we can find trend lines which are both up and down. Refer back to
Figure HI-5 for example. We know from the manner in which this chart was
constructed that if the chart were continued longer than shown we could draw another
channel using the peaks and lows of component “C” of Figure III-2. This channel is
strictly an upside channel, and the bottom bound of it forms strictly an uptrend
fas—during the precise time period when the trend lines of Figure HI-5 are both up
and down!
So Which of These Has What Meaning?
Exactly the same is true of all other chart patterns. We will often find, for
example, that the left shoulder (or head, or right shoulder) of a clearly visible head and
shoulder pattern will exhibit a head and Shoulder pattern of its own. This is, of course,
caused by shorter-term cyclic fluctuations than those which formed the larger pattern.
But again, the chartist usually sees only one of these, and appears at a loss to explain
the significance of more than one when they appear.
On What Basis Does He Attach Significance to One and Not to the Other?
Triangles, flags, etc., marked by a chartist may also be seen to form only a part of
a larger triangle or flag. Why did the chartist single out the one he did for detailed
consideration? This is all considered to be a part of the “arty” aspect of charting.
Actually, the missing link is knowledge of cyclicality. The trouble is that there is no
reference time period on which to base a selection. And even if there were, this
reference time period would have to be different depending on whether daily, weekly,
monthly, or yearly charts were considered!
Our cyclic model neatly solves this dilemma. For the facts are that all such
patterns within patterns are significant. The cyclic model, by providing the explanation
for chart pattern formation and the relationship between magnitude and duration of
components, essentially quantifies the significance of each chart pattern that forms.
This is what we are evaluatingin effect by our tables which show the up-down-sidewise
status of each observable periodicity. We not only see when members of these are
working together to produce price motionin either direction, but we can predict when
the pressures of each are likely to let up.In cases of nip and tuck, we can then call into
play our knowledge as to how muchmore potent any one component is than, say, two
others that may be opposing it—based upon our knowledge of magnitude vs. duration.
We can further refine our estimates as to what is likely to happen by noting signs of
magnitude-duration fluctuation in each component by observing the formation of
flags, failure to fill constant-width envelopes, etc. By adding knowledge of cyclicality
to charting techniques we take a major step in reducing the “art” of charting to the
“science” of prediction!
THE SIGNIFICANCE OFMOVING AVERAGES
Now let’s discuss an artificial chart pattern. As we have seen, the price motion of
stocks forms repeating patterns for perfectly valid cyclic reasons. However, the chartist

--- PAGE 56 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
63
has still more in the way of tricks up his sleeve. As you observe chart services, you will
often note the addition of curving lines to the chart which appear to be somewhat
related to price motion, but are not a part of it. These are “moving average” lines,
which have come into popular usage quite recently. Why are these added to the chart
and of what significance are they? Each of these has been tested by usage and found to
convey more information thanif price action alone were displayed. In short, they were
derived empirically (which means stumbledupon more or less by accident!), and found
to be of some use.
In order to understand why these are useful, we must probe deeply into what the
characteristics of a moving average consist of. This is done in the Appendix, and only
the significant results are presented here.
1. A moving average is a “smoother.” It is a numerical process applied to a sequence of
numbers (such as the time sequence of closing prices of a stock). The result is an
elimination or reduction in magnitude of short-term fluctuations, while leaving the
longer-term fluctuations modified little if at all. The net result is a smoother time
sequence of numbers than the sequence to whichit is applied.
2. But there is a variable involved in the useof a moving average.For example, the most
commonly used ones are a ten-week and a 30-week moving average. This simply means
that in each case the average is formed over a ten-week time span, or over a 30-week
time span. By inspection of the results it can be seen at once that they are different
(Figure III-10). Yet they operate upon the same numbers,namely the closing prices of
a stock. Obviously, the time spanof the average used alters its characteristics
Moving Averages Versus Time-Span

--- PAGE 57 of 215 ---

64
Verify Your Chart Patterns
3. These alterations in characteristics can be completely quantified and predicted (as in
the Appendix). The following general results are found to be true:
a) A moving average of any given time span exactly reduces the magnitude of
fluctuations of duration equal to that time span to zero.
b) The same moving average also greatly reduces (but does not necessarily eliminate)
the magnitude of all fluctuations of duration less than the time span of the moving
average.
c) All fluctuations of greater than the time span of the average “come through,” or are
also present in the resulting moving average line. Those with durations just a little
greater than the span of the average are greatly reduced in magnitude, but this
effect lessens as periodicity duration increases. Very long duration periodicities
come through nearly unscathed.
4. Notice that the “cutoff’ point, or point where a given duration periodicity is
completely eliminated (duration equal to the span of the average), is a controllable
variable. By choosing the span of a moving average correctly, we can control this
cutoff point, thus controlling what duration periodicities we want to suppress, or want
to allow to come through for observation!
From the above description of a moving averageit is seen right away that the user,
while not necessarily possessing knowledge of cyclicality in price motion, nevertheless
is employing a tool which is only useful in accentuating or diminishing visibility of
cyclicality. That the result does indeed produce enough useful results to warrant a
great deal of extra computational effort in stock chartingis a tribute and testimony to
the significance of cyclic phenomena in stock price motion!
WHY TEN-AND 30-WEEK MOVING AVERAGES ARE USEFUL
Now then. Why should empirical results have shown the ten-week and 30-week
moving averages to be exceptionally useful? Is this explainablein terms of our model?
Refer back now to our cyclic model component tabulation of Chapter Two.
Remembering the significance of the moving average time span in setting a smoothing
“cutoff’ point in fluctuation duration, we note that a ten-week span moving average
will set a cutoff point almost exactly midway between our 6.5- and 13.0-week duration
components. This means that all components of 13.0 weeks’ duration and more will
show up in the moving average results, while the components of 6.5 weeks and less will
be drastically reduced in magnitude (or “smoothed” out). Well! We find that a
ten-week moving average is useful because it calls our attention only to cyclic
fluctuations of 13 weeks and longer, allowing us to ignore the “distracting” shorter
duration oscillations.
What about a 30-week moving average? The cutoff this time is found to be
between the 26-week and nine-month (39-week) components of our model. This time,
all cyclic phenomena of nine months or longer duration are allowed to “come
through” while components of duration 26 weeks and less are ignored or smoothed! In
other words, if we had set up these smoothing objectives in advance with full
knowledge of the importance of our cyclic model in mind we could not have chosen
the proper “cutoff’ points much better—right smack in between the nominal durations

--- PAGE 58 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
65
of several of our most interestingand dominant cyclic components!It seems that once
again our chartists are very observant people. Without full awareness of cyclic
phenomena, they nevertheless used trial and error methods to good avail and came up
with the right answers.
HOW TO PLOT AND INTERPRET A MOVING AVERAGE PROPERLY
There is, however, one small but important characteristic of a moving average
which they did overlook. Thisisdemonstratedin the Appendix, and described here.
A moving average is an effective smoother of fluctuating time sequences of data.
However, the time relationship between the moving average and the data it smoothes is
not the one that is always shown on stock price charts. In fact, the moving average data
point plotted in association with the last price datum should be associated with a price
datum one-half the time span of the average in the past!
Let’s make this clearer with an example. Suppose we’re computing the latest
possible moving average data point for a ten-week moving average of the weekly closing
price of a stock. The procedure used is to add up the last ten weekly closing prices,
then divide the sum by ten. Now on stock price charts, the resulting value of the
ten-week moving average is always plotted at the time of the last price data point used
in computing the average. This is incorrect!
The proper time relationship between the computed moving average and the stock
price data it is smoothing is obtained by plotting the value computed above at a time
half-way between the fifth and the sixth previous price data points. This falls in the
middle of the week of a weekly chart, and hence is associated with no value for the
weekly close of the stock. For this reason, it is always better to use an odd number of
data points in preparing a moving average, so that there is always a stock price to be
associated with each average datum computed.
HOW A MOVING AVERAGE CAN AID CYCLIC ANALYSIS
What does all of this mean? Well, it can be important. Take a look at Figure
III-11. The weekly data for Alloys Unlimited (as used in FigureIII-10) is presented. On
this chart the ten-week moving average of FigureIII-10 has been shifted five and a half
weeks into the past as it should properly be plotted. It is now apparent that this line
represents a smoothing of actual price fluctuations. In fact,it is found to move almost
precisely down the center of one of our now familiar constant-width channels!
What is happening? Remember that the ten-week moving average is suppressing all
fluctuations of
less
than ten weeks’ duration while allowing longer duration
periodicities to “show through.” In this case, the ten-week moving average is an
imperfect (but not bad) representation of the sum of the 13-week and all longer
duration periodicities! The 13-week cycle here just barely comes through (note the dip
in the moving average at the top of the peak in May-June). However, the longer
24-week component (equivalent of the 18- to 20-week cycle of the model), and all
longer duration fluctuations are tracked to perfection. Note the difference in visibility
achieved by this means as you compare FiguresIII-10 andIII-11!

--- PAGE 59 of 215 ---

When plotted in this correct manner, two immediate uses for a moving average
come to mind:
1.It can be used to help isolate any desired component. By selecting the span of the
average properly, the stock price can be causedto oscillate about themoving average in
sympathy with the shortest duration component that the average does not suppress!
With this added visibility, we can often then place the correct envelope about
cyclicality,unambiguously selecting theproper highs andlows.
2, Since the moving average (plotted in this manner) only fails to be “up-to-date” by
about one-half the duration of the component isolated above, we can usually estimate
quite accurately (from the remaining stock price motion) what the average willlater be
shown to be doing—hence the envelope also.
These techniques can be of considerable help in the case of some stocks where,
for one reason or another, cyclicality is not readily apparent.
Here is a case then, of an artificial price motion pattern which the chartist has
found from experience to be useful. Its utility is seen to be directly explainable in
terms of the “X motivation” model. Even more important, understanding of the model
and of the characteristics of moving averages allows us to utilize the moving average
properly, and in ways not yet exploited by chartists at all!
SUMMARIZING CHART PATTERNS
It is time to sum up the results of this chapter. We could go on and on comparing
the expectations of the cyclic model with chartist observations—and this has been done
66

--- PAGE 60 of 215 ---

Verify Your Chart Patterns
in extensive detail. In every case themodelis shown not to be in conflict with charting
principles. Instead, it explains chart pattern existence and formation, and provides the
applicant withinterpretation and informationnot otherwise available.
As you continue reading, you should keep in mind at all times the following
relationshipsbetween cyclic analysis and chart patterns:
1.
Chart patternsformandrepeat becauseof therepetitivenature of cyclic price action.
2.
Trend lines and channels are a mandatory outgrowth of the price-motionmodel.
3.
Head and shoulder, double tops and bottoms, and “V" chart patterns are all
caused by the same cyclic action. Whether one or the other results is completely
dependent on the time relationships of the cyclic components that cause the
pattern.
4.
Triangles, diamonds, wedges, flags, and pennants are formed by the same type of
cyclic action. In these patterns, the magnitude-duration fluctuation aspect of the
price-motion model isdominant. Triangles may also be formed by a similar process
to that which produces head and shoulder type patterns.It is essential for you to be
able to differentiate between the two formative causes.
5.
Cyclic analysis provides the means of telling in advance in which direction prices
will go when a pattern terminates.
6.
The price-motion model provides the reference times without which chart pattern
analysis remains an “art.”
7.
Moving averages are smoothers.
8.
The "span” of a moving average is the design variable that permits the use of such
averages to improve cyclic visibility.
9.
The price-motion model explains the significance of the empirically derived ten-
and 30-week moving averages.
10.
A moving average becomes a great deal more useful if properly plotted. To do so,
the theoretical time lag of such an average must be taken into account.
11.
Moving averages can be of aid in cycl:. analysis. They can be used to establish the
trend of summed long-duration cyclic components, and to identify unambiguously
lows and highs about which curvilinear channels should be formed.

--- PAGE 61 of 215 ---

chapter
four
Timing Your Buys With Graphics
•Prediction by Graphics
• How to Construct Curvilinear Envelopes
•Prediction of Price Turns Using Envelopes
•Use This Example as Your Channel Prediction Guide
• Constructing the Dominant Channel
• Finding the Outer Envelope
•SettingUp Price-Turn Predictions
• The Kind of Results You Can Achieve
• How to Generate Graphic "Buy" Signals
• What to Look For
• Recognizing the "Valid Trend Line"
• "Edge-Band" Transaction Timing
• "Mid-Band" Transaction Timing
• Points to Remember Regarding Graphic "Buy" Signals
PREDICTION BY GRAPHICS
You have seen what is required to maximize investment profits. Transaction
timing is the golden key-and the price-motion model implies a way. However,
concepts of the price-motion model must now be applied in a practical manner to
generate objective investment decisions. Of all the methods available to do this,
graphical techniques are by far the fastest and easiest to apply. This chapter will tell
you how
to
form and interpret curvilinear
envelopes, and how to combine
price-motion model concepts with conventional chart patterns to provide definitive
“wait," “buy,” and “hold” signals.

--- PAGE 62 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
69
The first and most basic step is the identification of the dominant cyclic
components present in a particular stock, and the status of these components at the
present time. The objective is what we might call “first-order” prediction. That is, we
want to derive transaction timing benefits from the price-motion model by giving
ourselves a high statistical probability of correctly estimating when a set of cyclic
components will form a low (or a high). We must use knowledge of cyclicality coupled
with past price action in order to form an opinion of probable price turningpoints in
the future—and we wish to do this using simple and fast graphical techniques.
HOW TO CONSTRUCT CURVILINEAR ENVELOPES
The constant-width envelope that you were introduced to briefly in Chapter Two
is a powerful tool for the accomplishment of this task. You have seen several examples
of such envelope analysis now.In each case data on the stock of interest was presented
in a figure before addition of envelope bounds. This was done to provide a feeling for
the large increase in visibility afforded by the technique. Charting a stock tells you
much more at a glance than looking at tabulated data. Similarly, addition of
constant-width envelopes brings out and stresses the cyclic price-time relationships on
the chart. It would be a good idea at this point for you to return to and study the pairs
of such figures presented in previous chapters.
To start, you must construct or procure a weekly high-low chart of the issue you
are interested in. The time period covered by the chart should be at least long enough
to include one and a half cycles of the periodicity that is next longer in duration than
the one you are interested in trading on. If practical,it is even desirable to include the
second longer duration component in your data. Remember that these long-term
regularities have much larger magnitudes than your trading cycle, and can therefore be
very influential in determining where the price of the stock goes, regardless of what
your trading cycle is doing!
By observation of your weekly chart, you will always find that some one cyclic
component is most clearly discernible. This will usually be some variation of the 13- or
26-week (nominal) periodicity of the model. Keep the general outline of this price
motion in mind while you look for a narrow band of prices which will essentially
enclose the data, and will fluctuate with the dominant movement.
Start by lightly sketching in upper and lower bounds to this band (an overlay of
tissue or vellum is of help here). Now use a piece of scratch paper to measure the
channel height vertically at several points. Choose an average of these and correct your
embryonic envelope to
vt width. If any data points cannot be included in
this channel, widen the envelope until all price motion is accounted for.
Now repeat the process while decreasing the width of the band. You will normally
find a minimum-width envelope which contains all of the data except two or three
stray points which will be obvious by virtue of being the only data in the space
between the two envelopes you’ve drawn. Erase the wider of the two envelopes, for it
hasnow served its purpose.
The final envelope will now enable you to make a more accurate estimate of the

--- PAGE 63 of 215 ---

70
Timing Your Buys With Graphics
duration of the dominant periodicity by clearly demarkinglocations of highs and lows,
free from distortion caused by the presence of fluctuations of shorter duration.
Tabulate your estimate.
Now look within the envelope you’ve drawn. Note where the data touches or
comes close to envelope bounds. Price motion will tend to sweep back and forth
between these limits—somewhat regular’v
pc-'- " -
iost clear
' -'n-’
• —■rment and
measure between the lows, again using marks on scratch paper. Look now for other
lows both forward and backward in time from the first one. Knowing in this way the
approximate location at which you should find such additional lows, it is usually
apparent where they are, even when duration-magnitude fluctuation is present. As each
one is located, mark it on the chart. Note the dir
?r each sample
average these. This is your best estimate of the expected duration of the component
contained within your first envelope. A second envelope can sometimes be constructed
about this component-but more often than not you will findit to be too irregular to
be of much help.
Go back to your original channel and examine it closely. If you have charted
sufficient data you will have at least two highs and two lows of the dominant
component shown. These peaks and valleys constitute points on a second envelope
which contains the dominant component. Sketch this one in, using the same
techniques as for the first. You have now identified three of the cyclic components
dominant in the specific issue you have chosen!
With this much accomplished, you can normally spot still shorter duration
periodicities within your narrowest channel. These will typically display too much
variation in duration and will be too near the next longer duration component in size
to allow identification using other envelopes. However, you can mark the lows involved
with a check or somethingsimilar.
PREDICTION OF PRICE TURNS USINGENVELOPES
Prepare yourself a table showing the condition of each of the identified
components just prior to each major up or down move on your chart. Do this by using
the average durations you have obtained for the samples present of each cyclicality.
Then count weeks from the last low preceding the point of interest. Remember, any
given periodicity reaches a peak and starts back down one-half of the average duration
from the last low. You will find that, if you have property drawn your channels, the
resulting tabulations will completely explain every fluctuation you see in the stock
price?
Now, repeat your tabulation of cyclic condition for the last data point on your
chart. What you are looking for, of course, is the case where two or more cyclic
components are due to bottom out in the very near future, at the same time, and the
sum of all longer duration components is hard up. Once found, you are ready to track
the issue closely, determined to buy the moment price action tel’s you the process you
expect has started! If you use your average cyclic durations and measure from the last
visible low of each cycle into the future, you will have a pretty fair idea as to just how
soon your ideal buy point may occur.
A few comments on the above. You may wish at this time to change your mind

--- PAGE 64 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
71
with regard to your preselected trading interval. From the above work, you can see
clearly which of the components found is most regular and altogether dominant. You
can also determine roughly the percentage move to be expected. Naturally, you will
want to trade on a component move that provides plenty of room to clear transaction
costs, and to make the size profit you desire. Do not forget to take into account the
fact that you will probably be unable to buy at the very bottom and sell at the extreme
top.
It is helpful to note whether or not a given whole number (usually two or three)
of shorter components existsin the duration span of the trading cycle you select. The
behavior of these can be used to sharpen up your get in and get out points. Oftentimes,
several of these shorter duration cycles can be used, each telling you something about
the status of the next longer duration one.
It is a good idea also to make or procure a daily chart for your stock. This does
not need to cover as long a time period as the weekly one, butit should show at least
one and a half cycles of the trading component. Transfer the appropriate channels
from the weekly to the daily chart. You will usually find that several more periodicities
(of very short duration) are identifiable here. Usually the variability of these prohibits
use of more channels, but the successive lows can beidentified. These may be used as a
very fine vernier on your transaction timing.
If you find (as you occasionally will) that you cannot make “cyclic sense” from
the stock you have selected, it is a good idea to forget it as an investment vehicle and
find another. After all, there are literally thousands to choose from. Why take chances
with one you cannot understand?
As you practice making these envelopes, note the following: the envelope is valid,
past-history, and will never need changing from the last well defined high or low
backward in time. Since this point can never be much more than half a cycle duration
from present time, the maximum time lag of channel validity is one-half cycle of the
enclosed fluctuation. Of course, you should always draw in lightly your best estimate
of what the channel is doingin this period—changing channel bounds as price action
makes this necessary until you reach a new high or lbw. At this point in.time, the time
lag is zero and your channel is valid up to current time. This means uncertainty is at a
minimum and the situation represents a particularly low-risk decision point. Even
before this time you will often note that a single day’s price motion will alert you to a
change of conditions by moving outside the estimated channel position. This tells you
either that fundamentals are changing, or that you have previously misestimated the
status of the sum of all longer duration components. In either case, appropriate action
can be taken.
The above discussion provides the overall considerations to be kept in mind when
using channel analysis. Some of these procedures will be valid and useful for some
stocks while other aspects of the analysis may be better for others.
USE THIS EXAMPLE AS YOUR CHANNEL PREDICTION GUIDE
Assume that some one has provided you with the data tabulated below. All you
have are the highs and lows for some issue (say “Z” Corp.) for a series of weeks as of
the close each Friday:

--- PAGE 65 of 215 ---

72
Timing Your Buys With Graphics
Week Ending
High
Low
8-18-67
106
9-4
8-25-67
10-2
9-4
9-1-67
12-1
9-5
9-8-67
12-2
106
9-15-67
10-7
96
9-22-67
10-3
9-1
9-29-67
10-1
96
10-2-67
9-2
86
10-13-67
8-7
86
10-2067
86
76
10-27-67
8-2
7-3
11-367
76
7-1
11-1067
7-2
66
11-1767
7-2
6-4
11-2467
6-4
6-1
12-167
7-1
64
12-867
7-1
6-5
12-1567
9-0
6-5
12-22-67
8-5
7-5
12-2967
84
74
1-568
8-1
7-5
1-1268
9-1
76
1-19-68
9-0
8-1
1-2668
8-5
7-6
2-2-68
7-7
7-1
2-968
7-4
66
2-1668
7-2
64
2-2368
7-0
64
3-168
76
64
3-868 '
6-5
56
3-1568
6-4
5-7
3-2268
6-3
56
3-29-68
6-7
5-7
4-568
76
6-2
4-1268
6-4
5-7
4-1968
76
6-1
4-2668
7-2
6-2
5-3-68
7-7
6-5
5-10-68
7-5
7-1
5-1768
7-7
76
5-2468
7-3
64
5-3168
8-5
7-1
6-768
8-3
7-5
6-1468
96
76
6-2168
86
8-2
6-2868
8-5
86
7-568
8-5
8-1
7-1268
96
8-1
7-1968
9-5
8-5
7-2668
8-7
8-1

--- PAGE 66 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
73
Now try something. Run your eyes down this tabulation and study it well. Just from
this scan of data alone, infer just as much as you can about the future price action of
the stock. Write down your conclusions before continuing this chapter.If you are like
most of us, you will gain verylittle from this exercise regardingaction you should take
in order to trade profitably in the stock. Is the stock a buy? If so, now? Later? How
much later? Shouldit be sold short? When?
Now turn to Figure IV-1. From this conventional plot of the data, you should
immediately obtain a much improved feel for what the issue is doing. Just the act of
plotting the data has added visibility. Once again, write down your impressions of what
you should do with this stock. Is it likely to make you money if you ger in it?If so,
how much? Is it going down from here-or will it continue the current uptrend? What
should you do with it, and when should you do it? At this point in the analysis, you
will probably experience difficulty in answering such questions. Remember, you don’t
even know the name of the stock. You know nothing about the company that issuedit
or their products. You don’t know whether dividends are paid or whether the earnings
situation is improving or deteriorating. You are not even aware of what the market as a
whole is doing! Can channel analysis help‘d
CONSTRUCTING THE DOMINANT CHANNEL
Turn your attention to Figure IV-2. Here is the same data, but with a first
envelope drawn about it using the techniques described earlier. Notice that the channel
is constructed to enclose a component for which eight samples are present of about

--- PAGE 67 of 215 ---

five to seven weeks in duration. One sample is only three weeks long. This one is a
result of magnitude-duration fluctuation, and is to be ignored. The average duration of
the remaining seven samples is 6.0 weeks.
Furthermore, it is seen that prices in three places exceed envelope bounds. This is
not unusual. Envelopes should be constructed so that nearly all the data is enclosed,
but a second criterion calls for minimum envelope width. Quite often a compromise is
necessary. Notice that in each case of envelope overrun, the envelope could not have
been drawn in any other manner without considerable widening. The overrun of the
third and fourth weeks was dictated by the full channel width of the price action of
the fifth week (points 1 and 2). Points 3, 4, and 5 (weekly lows and highs just prior to
or just following channel overruns) forced channel bounds, showing clearly that the
overruns were exceptions. The final downward hook to the channelis forced by point
5, the lows of the third, fourth, and fifth weeks before the end of data, and the highs
of the second and third weeks before data end.
We have now added a small amount of additional visibility. We know that the
trend of prices is down for the immediate future. We don’t know how far or for how
long, but we expect about three more weeks at least on the downside (the last six-week
cycle is now three weeks along). We conclude that we wouldn’t want to buy the stock
right now.
FINDING THE OUTER ENVELOPE
Now turn to Figure IV-3. Figure IV-2 clearly displayed a cycle of duration longer
than six weeks. Again the techniques of channel construction are employed to draw a
74

--- PAGE 68 of 215 ---

second channel. Only one full cycle of this periodicity is present andit spans 19 weeks.
Suddenly, a great deal of additional visibility is ours!
We notice that the sum of all periodicities of duration longer than 19 weeks
(represented by the center line of the secondchannel) has rounded a bottom and is now
up. We see also that we are about 16 weeks along on a 19-week (nominal duration)
cycle. This means the 19-week cycle is due to low-out in about three weeks. We recall
that the six-week cycle low is also expected in three weeks. Our interest stirs! Here is a
case where long-term, large-magnitude cycles are boosting the price higher. We
certainly don’t want to short this issue. On the other hand, we don’t want to buy it for
two to three weeks yet as we suspect it will be moving sideways to down in that
interval.
SETTING UP PRICE-TURN PREDICTIONS
In Figure IV-4 everything we’ve learned about the stock so far is presented on one
chart. We’ve gone further and sketched in an estimated continuation of each channel
for the next five months. The outer envelope is simply extended at the same rate of
curvature. L-3 timing is based on the three-weeks-to-a-low estimate previously
formed, while the price level at that same time is determined by the lower bound of
the outer envelope. L^l is located an additional 19 weeks from L-3. The high in
October is pretty much of a guess at this point, except that we know it is likely to
occur more than halfway from L-3 to L-4 because of the uptrend of the outer
channel.
75

--- PAGE 69 of 215 ---

Rough Prediction UsingEnvelopes
THE KIND OF RESULTS YOU CAN ACHIEVE
We started with a data tabulation which told us nearly nothing about the future
actions of the stock. A conventional stock price chart was made which added a little,
but still did not tell us what to do. We continued with envelope analysis and
application of the concepts of the price-motion model. The result?
•The stock should be bought,not sold short.
•In about three weeks we should be able to get into it at around 7%.
•We would expect an increase in price over the next eight to ten weeks to the region of
11%. This would represent a 55% gain in two months, or an equivalent per year yield
rate of 330%. Well worthwhile!
But—is this what the stock will actually do? Now you ask your data source for
the name of the company—Gruen Industries.If you wish, check out the fundamentals;
you’ve got several weeks of waiting anyway. If the stock moves to the vicinity of 7% to
716 at about the time you expect it to, you buy it.
Figure IV-5 shows what happens. The time of turns and the amount ofmoveswere
very close to being correct over a five-month periodinto the future! You were able to
purchase the stock at 7!6in the third week—and could have sold at your target price of
1
in just four weeks instead of the estimated eight to ten. Moreover, you would not
have been idle all this time. Each week you would have rerun your analysis. As early as
76

--- PAGE 70 of 215 ---

the third week after purchase, you had an indication that the stock was going to do
even better than anticipated (puncture of the inner envelope on the upside and
prematurely). The next week the outer envelope was also violated. Sinceit was/ar too
early for a peak of the 19-week cycle, you wouldhave re-estimated channel bounds at
this point. Your new selling target would have become 12(6 on this basis. Your net
return on the transaction is 62% in eight weeks or an equivalent compounded yield of
2313% per year. And remember—you arrived at the conclusions necessary to do this
without any knowledge whatsoever of fundamentals—in fact, without even knowing
the name of the issue. You should be able to gain a good feeling for the power of the
technique by comparing final analysis conclusions with the opinions you wrote down
for yourself during the early part of the example.
HOW TO GENERATE GRAPHIC “BUY” SIGNALS
The identification and analysis of status of cyclic components are basic to the
generation and interpretation of specific action signals. You must practice the
curvilinear envelope techniques diligently until you have mastered and thoroughly
understand all of the variations from nominality to be expected from individual issues.
While cyclic status is an essential first step on the road to improved transaction timing,
it should be noted that by itself this type of analysis provides only crude timing
information. We will now see how knowledge of the price-motion model, cyclic status
analysis, and conventional chart patterns can be combined to refine timing criteria-all
by use of graphical methods.
77

--- PAGE 71 of 215 ---

[OCR] 78 Timing Your Buys With Graphics

WHAT TO LOOK FOR
Let us consider the characteristics we desire in a “buy” signal.

© A buy signal must be capable of being set up in advance of actual price action, We
must be able to say: “For these logical reasons, if the stock behaves in the future in a
certain, specific manner, this action will be interpreted as a signal to buy.”

© Having caused us to buy the stock, the buy signal must have the characteristic of
assuring us the highest possible probability that the stock will immediately proceed to
make us the largest possible profit in the shortest possible length of time.

Envelope analysis meets some of these requirements, but not all. To improve the
situation, we recall how the price-motion model explains the regular and periodic
formation of common chart patterns. It has been noted that cyclic analysis can often
remove the doubt from chart pattem interpretation. Such chart patterns serve a very
definite purpose’ in calling attention to specific cyclic conditions. When combined with
the predictive capabilities of envelope analysis, some of these patterns can provide
accurate and totally objective transaction timing signals. The two that are the most
useful for this purpose are the triangle and the trend line. Now let us add the concept
of a “valid trend line” to our bag of techniques and methods!

RECOGNIZING THE “VALID TREND LINE”

Remember in Chapter Three how it was shown that several trend lines can be in
existence and force at the same time in the same stock? It was shown there that these
were simply straightened-out segments of curvilinear channels, several of which always
exist simultaneously. The nature of these channels is always such that those enclosing
shorter duration cyclic components move both upward and downward more steeply
than those enclosing longer duration periodicities. Therefore the straightened-out
segments that we know as “trend lines” become increasingly steep as the component
duration enclosed within the associated channel shortens.

Keeping this in mind, recall now the results of envelope analysis on Gruen
Industries. We knew approximately when and where prices were going to stop going
down and start upward. We knew that components of several different durations were
going to bottom out—about three weeks from the time of the analysis.

© Each such component has a real or theoretical channel which can enclose it.

© Each such channel has an associated downtrend line.

© Each such downtrend line gets steeper as component duration diminishes.

© The valid downtrend line is the steepest one formed which leads into the time period in
which a multiplicity of cyclic lows is expected!

Now let’s stop and examine what’s just been said. Envelope analysis tells us
approximately when and where to expect price turns of the magnitude on which we
wish to trade. But we do not wish simply to buy at about this time and price for
several reasons. The stock may take off sooner than we expect and leave us uninvested
(after all there is a variation of fluctuation duration to contend with). Or, we may have
mis-analyzed and find our error only after having made a purchase. Again,

--- PAGE 72 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
79
fundamentals may enter the picture to the detriment of profit. For these reasons we
would like the stock to demonstrate to us that what we expect to happen has started
before we commit hard-earned dollars. Still, we do not wish to wait too late and find
ourselves “chasing** the stock. So we need an accurate, sensitive, positive indicationin
the way of a buy signal that assures us that the right time is now.
The valid trend line accomplishes these objectives for us. General cyclic analysis
plus the envelope capability to predict turns allow us to select that one of all possible
trend lines through which a break is a validindication that one or more of the expected
lows has been formed—and that the timeisright tobuy!
Why is this a particularly low-risk buy point? Remember that you have already
picked a particularly propitious time to buy. The stock has been going down—and no
stock goes down forever. Buying always occurs somewhere along the line with an
attendant price rise. You have carefully analyzed the issue and find that a number of
cyclic lows should occur in a certain time interval The result of all these lows forming
more or less simultaneously is going to turn the sum of all components of duration
longer than your trading cycle upward.It is even going to cause the price of the stock
to fluctuate above this by the sum of your trading cycle move plus that of all
components of still shorter duration! You are now using trend lines as a means of
tracking the activity of each component as it nears a low. As each low is reached, by
definition, the associated trend line must be broken—and the first one to do so will be
that which is part of the channel enclosing the shortest significant component But this
one cannot break the trendlineuntil the next longer duration component has rounded
its low, etc. All of this is probabilistic, of course, but you are beginning to get a lot of
the oddsin your favor at this point?
“EDGE-BAND” TRANSACTION TIMING
Let’s start where we left off with Gruen Industries. In Figure IV-6 the results of
the channel analysis are shown. This time the plot is of daily data, with the envelopes
developed on the weekly plots superimposed. The shaded area represents a spread of
uncertainty over time and price as to when we expect prices to turn up. The center
lines in this area represent a time and price target-essentially our best estimate of
each. Now start looking at the price motion for peaks along which to draw trend lines.
The first peak of the current downtrend occurred two and a half weeks ago. This will
be one point on one downtrend line. A second peak appears to be in the making as of
two days ago. However, it is not certain as yet since a lower low has not followed. So
at this point in time we cannot draw any downtrend line with confidence.
Now let two more days pass as in Figure IV-7. Two solid peaks are now evident,
and an initial downtrend line is drawn which leads directly into the heart of our price
turn zone, if no other trend lines form before, we determine that we will buy the stock
as soon as we’re within the time boundaries of the turn zone and prices break through
this trend line on the upside.
Two more days pass, putting us into the time region of interest. As shown in
Figure 1V-8, a still shorter duration peak has formed, establishing a second and steeper
downtrend line. If no other trend lines form before, we will now buy the stock at any

--- PAGE 73 of 215 ---

80
Timing Your Buys With Graphics
The First Valid Downtrend Line

--- PAGE 74 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
81
moment it breaks this trend line on the upside—provided time has not passed so that
we’ve exited the time zone on the far side. Needless to say, our envelope analysis
should not show violation either. Everything looks ripe and A-OK. Channel analysis
predicted prices would be about here at about this time. A series of steepening trend
lines has formed. We should be at or very near the bottom of all the multiplicity of
channels that can be drawn. We should expect to have all the probabilities on our side
if we use a breakin this trendline as a valid buy signal.
The very next day prices traded completely above our valid trend line (see Figure
IV-9). This means that the stock opened at a price which was above the trend line. This
was our signal to place an immediate order to buy at market! Let’s say we got our
order executed at mid-range for the day, or 714. The subsequent rise in price to 13 in
the next 65 days is quite dramatic, isn’t it?
This is an example of “edge-band” transaction timing. We utilized all the
information the price-motion model provides to establish an objective and rational buy
signal that put us in the stock at the lower edge of our cyclic channels. This method
can be generally counted on to provide a maximum of room for upside price motion
for the trading cycle selected. Notice that the same technique could have been used on
any cyclic component. The investor with large amounts of capital who wishes to
operate on a longer term basis would, of course, apply the same methods to longer
duration cycles.
We are not, however, assured of maximum profits in terms of yield per unit time
when using the edge-band technique. Let’s see how this works.

--- PAGE 75 of 215 ---

The Buy Signal—AndProfitsIn ThePocket!
“MID-BAND” TRANSACTION TIMING
Notice the fact (from Figure IV-9) that the price of the stock idled more or lessin
the purchase area for nearly two weeks before making an appreciable move upward.In
terms of yield, this was wasted time. Then, within two days’ time, the price moved
nicely to 9, only to idle between 7-3/4 and 9 for an additional two weeks before
moving on. Remember our investment philosophy which calls for maximum time rate
of profit. Those idle weeks represent time in which we could have had our investment
dollars at work elsewhere.
Why did prices tend to move out rather slowly, then gather momentum as time
went along? We were buyingin at the first indication that cyclic lows had been formed.
Naturally, the first such indications came from the shortest duration periodicities,
which top out and reverse themselves just as quickly. The longer term components
forming lows at about the same time make their turn more slowly (by definition).In
fact, no component provides maximum time rate of change of price untilit is halfway
between a low and a high (or high and a low as the case may be). Thus the large
magnitude, long duration components that contribute the most to price motion are
scarcely in motion on the upside when our first indication of a short term oscillation
turn becomes apparent.
This brings us to a second type of buy signal which we may term a "mid-band”
buy. The logic behind this is simply that we will waita/ter the "edge-band” buy point
82

--- PAGE 76 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
83
until a slightly longer duration cyclicality causes prices to pause. Then we will utilize
the same type of valid trend line technique to set up a buy signal closer to
mid-channel-hence closer to the point of maximum rate of price increase. We won’t
expect to make as much per trade, but we hope to make a higher percent per unit time
yield, and to compound our profits more often. Remembering our trading philosophy,
it is the compounding effect that produces profits more quickly than any other single
factor. Of course, we must pay for this gain through addedlabor;i.e.,having complete
analysis ready and available on a number of issues at once so that we are given
sufficient buying opportunities to maintainnear 100% time investment of capital.
Let’s see how mid-band timing would work out in the case of Gruen. Figure
IV-10 shows the required analysis. It is assumed that all previous analysis has been
noted without action, since we have predetermined on a mid-band buy. The moves to 9
and back to 7 3/4, then to 8 3/4 and back to 8 3/8 were seen. On this exact day, two
important things are noticed that immediately cause us to take action:
1. We note that we are approaching a low on a component of roughly four weeks’ duration
(two samples present).
2. A triangle is forming composed of two one-week cycles.
We are ready to set up our mid-band buy criteria! First, let us analyze the
triangle.

--- PAGE 77 of 215 ---

84
Timing Your Buys With Graphics
1. Sum of all componentslonger
in duration than 19 weeks
(represented by center line of
19-week cycle channel)
HARD UP
2. 19-week component
3¥i weeks along-
hard up
3. 4-week component
Bottoming out to
turnup
4. 2-week component
Bottoming out to
turnup
5. 1-week component
Bottomingout to
turn up
We predict all odds in favor of an upside resolution of the triangle—and very
soon! The upper boundary of the triangle is also the valid trend line at this point in
time. It is validated by two peaks of the one-week cycle. No steeper trend lines have
formed as yet. It trends right into the heart of the time when upside resolution of the
triangle should take place. We draw in the valid trend line and conclude that an upside
breakout is a valid mid-band buy signal.
The next day immediately provided this signal. Now notice several things:
1. You would have had to employ special intra-day tracking procedures to have handled
the nud-band buy signal without chasing the price. This can be done, and techniques
are describedinlater chapters.But again,more time and effort are involved.
2. Assume for the sake of comparison that you were able in both the edge-and mid-band
cases to sell at the top—at 13.Your gross profits on the edge-band transaction would
be 73.5% in 65 calendar days or an equivalent per unit time yield of 418% per year.
The mid-band transaction grossed only 53%, but it did it in 36 days. The resulting
equivalent per unit time yield is 539%per year!
As usual, the shorter time interval of trading produced the highest profit yield,
not to mention the effect on profit compounding which is even more impressive.
However, the price exacted is increased time, effort and attention.
In this example a triangle formed at the precise mid-band buy point. This was a
fortunate happenstance that will not always occur. The two important points to
remember are these:
1. Always watch for triangles of all sizes and shapes. This chart pattern, when analyzed
for resolution using price-motion model concepts, always provides extremely valuable
timinginformation.Never pass up the opportunity to analyze a triangle!
2. If a triangle does not form at the mid-channel buy point-simply utilize the valid
downtrend line concept applied to the shortest duration component present. Be sure
to complete a cycle status analysis as each new high and low (either daily or weekly)
becomes available. This will assure you of the continuing validity of the downtrend
lines you are using.

--- PAGE 78 of 215 ---

Timing Your Buys With Graphics
85
POINTS TO REMEMBER REGARDING GRAPHIC “BUY” SIGNALS
• As many envelopes should be formed as the amount of data available permits. At
least one and preferably two components of duration longer than the one you wish to
trade on should be identified by envelopes.
•If sufficient care is used in the construction of these, estimates to current time of
probable envelope continuation from the last identifiable low (or high) can provide
advance warningof change or analysiserror.
•Estimates of cyclic duration variation may be formed by direct measurement (on
scratch paper), or you may count weeks from low-to-low and average.In either case,
envelopes provide enough visibility to give a fair estimate as to when cyclic lows are
likely to occur in the future.
•An ideal buy point is approached as several cyclic components approach lows
simultaneously, with the sum of all longer duration components being on the upside.
(A center line through the middle of a channel is a good representation of the sum of
ail components of durationlonger than the one contained by the channel.)
• Use of daily charts in conjunction with weekly ones provides additional information
on the status of very short duration components. These normally occur in groups of
two or three per some longer duration one. They can therefore be used as verniers on
transaction timing decisions.
• Envelope analysis does not provide clear-cut, objective buy and sell signals,but it does
lay the groundwork for prediction,andis the basis of all more definitive techniques.
• Triangles and trend lines when used in conjunction with channel analysis price-turn
prediction can provide precise and objective buy signals.
•Downtrend lines must always be formed from clear-cut peaks of recognizable cyclic
highs. (Uptrend lines are formed similarly from clear-cut lows of recognizable cyclic
fluctuations.)
• As
stock prices near a multiplicity of cyclic lows, multiple trend lines form
corresponding to cyclic channels. Each trendline formed is steeper than the last.
• This steepening of trend lines occurs all along a channel, as various components
low-out. It is only of significance when the time for a multiplicity of lows is
approached as indicated by channel analysis.
•The steepest such downtrend line which is broken on the upside duringthe time zone
of an expected multiplicity of cyclic lows is a valid downtrendline.
•The upside breakout from a valid downtrend line is a valid buy signal.
•If this occurs in the price-turn zone,it is an edge-band buy signal.
•If it occurs at or near the center of the channel enclosing the trading cycle,it is a
mid-band buy signal.
•Mid-band buy signals are more lucrative than edge-band signals in terms of yield on
investment capital, but compound the work and effort involved.
• Cyclic analysis of triangle formation and resolution provides strong additional evidence
of buy signal validity.

--- PAGE 79 of 215 ---

chapter
five
You’ve Made Some Money — How to Keep It
•Use of Logical Cut-Loss Criteria
•Extension to Trailing "Sell" Signals
•How to Construct Selling Analogs
•How to Make and Use Non-Real Time Envelopes
•Selling Short
•Selling Rules to Remember
Let’s assume you’ve made a buy using any of the techniques of Chapter Four.
You have done so knowing that the odds are very good that your timing was correct,
and that you stand to make a profit on your transaction. But some small odds still
favor an incorrect decision. How do you protect yourself against these small chances of
transaction failure? You could pick an arbitrary amount of loss you are willing to risk
in return for the long-odds profit potential you have set up for yourself. This is the
usual route to go, and may be implemented either by a stop-loss order, or by a
self-imposed level at which you will sell out by calling your broker. This approach is
generally unsatisfactory, however. You always know in the background of your mind
that the level you have chosen is arbitrary. With no particularly logical reason behind
the choice, human psychology is such thatit is a very strong temptation to “wait just a
little longer’’ in the hopes that your buy decision will be vindicated. This usually
results in the process known as “letting your losses run”!
USE OF LOGICAL CUT-LOSS CRITERIA
There is a much better way, based solidly on the price-motion model. Once again,
what is desired is a decision made in advance that if the price of the stock behaves in a
certain way in the future, an automatic signal to cut losses short is given. This signal
must not be arbitrary in nature;in fact,it should be so firmly based on cyclic precepts
that minimum temptation will exist to ignore it’
86

--- PAGE 80 of 215 ---

You VeMade Some Money-How to Keep It
87
Let’s go back to our valid downtrend line concept. This is a straightened-out
upper bound of a curvilinear channel enclosing the shortest duration cyclic component
observable on the daily chart. But, by definition,
a channel always has two
bounds—upper and lower. Locate and sketchin the correspondinglower bound(it does
not need to be accurately done). Now note the lowest low of the cyclic component
enclosed by this channel just prior to the time when the valid downtrend line was
broken. Draw a horizontal line on your chart at this price level, and either enter a
stop-loss order at this value at the time of your purchase or vow vehemently to sell
instantly onits violation!
Let’s talk about the rationale behind this procedure. First of all you didn’t
mvke the purchase at all until the time was cyclically right and the stock price told you
that the cyclic lows anticipated had been passed. Under these circumstances, you
expect the stock to move no way but up after your purchase, buoyed in this direction
by the summed rates of price motion of several cyclic fluctuations. In no circumstance
do you expect the price to get lower than the bottom of the channel enclosing the
shortest duration fluctuation present. If it should do so, the channel would stillbe on
the downside, indicating that the sum of all longer duration components is still
downside. This would mean that the expected multiplicity of lows has not yet
occurred—and a low probability transaction timing error has caught up with you.
Either this is true, or an unforeseen change has taken place. In either event—you want
nothingbut out until the situation resolves itself.
Set up in this manner, you will find that the resulting loss is seldom more than
twice in-out commission costs. Best of all, you now have a solidly rational reason for
cutting your losses short, with an attendant increase in likelihood that you will do so!
Your reasons for selling at this point are at all times as good as the reasons for the
purchase in the first place. If you have developed confidence enough to buy on cyclic
criteria, you should also have enough confidence to cut losses short on the same
criteria.
Let’s try this procedure on for size in the case of the Gruen Industry buy signals.
Turning to Figure V-l, we see the now familiar edge- and mid-band buy points for
Gruen. The first buy level is at about 714 when the edge-band valid downtrend line was
violated. The lower channel bound (of which this trend line was an upper bound) is
shown dotted. The breakthrough told us that this tiny section of channel had curved
sharply upward. This could only occurif the sum of all components of duration longer
than the one enclosed by the channel has turned upward. In this case, the intra-channel
component has a duration of about one-half week, and the components which have
turned up sharply are the one-week, two-week and four-week ones. We mark the low
from which prices pulled away on the breakout as TLL 1 (Trailing Loss Level No. 1).
If our analysis has been correct, and if cyclic action is not overridden by
fundamentals, the stock price should not see this level again until our profit objectives
are reached.If it does, somethingis wrong, and the stock should be sold without delay.
It is noticed that the stock did not violate this level, but continued to behave per
expectation. But suppose that it had. What would have been the nature of our loss? We
would have bought at 7!4 and sold at 7 1/8. The percentage loss due to decreased stock
price is 5% and we are charged another 4% in in-out commissions. This is just about

--- PAGE 81 of 215 ---

88
You‘veMadeSomeMoney-How to KeepIt
A TriangleResolution “Hold’ Signal
twice commission costs—a loss of 9% which we have risked against a precalculated
potential for a 55% gain. Coupled with the fact that we have prestacked the deck
heavily in favor of the large gain (as opposed to the small loss if we are wrong), the
prospects for this transaction are too good to pass up! It will be foundinpractice that
this method of setting up stop-loss levels, predetermined at the time of the buy, will
average about 10% as the stop-transaction loss factor. Best of all, you have a solid
reason for believing that you should take the loss—and a correspondingly better chance
of doing so rather than let losses run because of emotion and pride. At this point you
should reason through for yourself the use of the price level marked TLL 3 inFigure
V-l as the initial stop-loss level for the mid-band buy signal.
EXTENSION TO TRAILING “SELL” SIGNALS
A fairly common trading practice is to use so-called trailing stop-loss orders (or
price levels) to protect profits on a transaction, the theory being that as paper profits
mount, you keep raising the level at which you will sell outif prices start to drop -thus
always assuring retention of some portion of the maximum possible profits on a
transaction. This scheme is good, but the same difficulties are encountered as in the
setting of an arbitrary cut-loss level. If you trail prices too closely, a small dip may sell
you out causing you to miss a much larger rise. If you trail too far behind prices, you
salvage less and less of your paper profits if a dip turns out to be a major turn-around.
The concept for cutting losses short based upon the price-motion model points
up an excellent way of getting around this difficulty. The initial cut-loss level, of

--- PAGE 82 of 215 ---

You'veMade SomeMoney-How to KeepIt
89
course, serves as the first stage of the trailingprofit preservation process. Since you are
presumably in the stock just asit ispullingaway from a multiplicity of cyclic lows, the
very next low you expect to see is that of the shortest duration component present.
Following the stock by cyclic analysis you should fairly well know in advance when
this should occur. As soon as it does come about—and you know it has happened
because the price has then pulled away again on the upside—mark the new low (above
the previous one) as a new sell-out level. If your trading cycleis the one which is next
longer in duration than this shortest observable one, you may continuein this manner
until you are automatically sold out. Normally, this willnot be so. There will be several
periodicities with durations between those of the shortest duration one and your
selected trading cycle.
Where this is true, you should maintain your original trailingloss level until you
experience a low of the component next shorter in duration than your trading cycle.
Then, as prices pull away confirming this low, a new level may be marked. Continue
cyclic analysis as time passes. Always keep updating your estimate of when the next
low will occur for ail components—but especially for the trading cycle and the next
shorter duration component
Suppose the trading cycle normally contains three of the next shorter duration
fluctuations. When the first low of this cycle is reached (and confirmed by prices
pulling away from it again), mark this low as an emergency sell-out point. At this time,
your sell level should assure you of a fair amount of profit retention. Notice this: if
you had continued to use the lows of the shortest duration cycle to establish these sell
levels, you would probably have been sold out at the just-reached low of the
component next shorter in duration than your trading cycle!
Now note the position of prices within your best estimate of where the trading
cycle envelope is. You should be approximately halfway to the upper bound. If you
are close to the upper bound, shift immediately to use of the selllevels created by the
shortest duration component. If about midway, you should continue to use the level
set by the last low of the component just shorter than the trading cycle. All through the
process, use your envelope as a guide. Remember, for months in the past your stock
price motion has oscillated within this envelope.It is highly unlikely that it is going to
go screaming out the top of it just because you’re in it. Any time prices approach the
upper bound and cyclic analysis indicates you’ve got the channel drawn correctly, you
should be using the shortest duration component as a means of setting emergency sell
levels. In fact, as you approach upper bounds, it is best to shift to a series ofuptrend
lines, using the valid one to provide a take-profit signal. No matter what happens-as
Ion'! its vour emergency sell levels and valid uptrend lines are not violated, the signal is
“hold." You never know, you may get caught in one of those short-sharp fundamental
things that override cyclicality and drive prices si
< upward and you d hate to miss
the ride! And if it happens to occur on the downside, your sell signal criteria should
still preserve profits for you-or at least prevent loss.
Applying these concepts to Gruen, return your attention to Figure V-l. The
trading cycle selected for both edge- and mid-band buys was the 19-week one. (All
shorter duration components were used only as verniers in setting up precise buy
timing.) The next shorter duration component is the four-week one and it is the

--- PAGE 83 of 215 ---

90
You'veMadeSome Money—How to KeepIt
demonstrated lows of this cycle that should be used to establish trailing loss levels until
the time for profit-taking draws close. The successive lows of this periodicity are shown
in the figure as TLL 1,3, and 4 respectively.The use of an in-between level in this case
(TLL 2) is predicated on the size of the pull-away move from the first two-week low.
With this kind of price action we know we’ve timed our transaction well. Accordingly,
we do not expect the next two-week low to see the one marked TLL 2 again, and we
can validly “up” our loss level a small amount.
HOW TO CONSTRUCT SELLING ANALOGS
To this point, we have discussed sell signals which prevent excessive transaction
loss or preserve profits in case our price objectives are not reached for some reason.
However, as time passes, we must reach a peak of our trading cycle somewhere along
the line. We could use our trailing sell signals to tell us when to get out, but doing so
will sacrifice a goodly part of the maximum gain potential. Therefore, we would like a
bag of tricks which provides us with definitive, in advance signals that it is time to take
profits.Inmost cases such sell signals are analogs of the ones used to buy.
Continued envelope analysis is, of course, a requirement. Triangle analysis is
always helpful when applicable. Let’s study Figure V-l again closely. We’ve made
either an edge- or mid-band purchase. Trailing loss levels have been set up continuously
as time passes. The data shown in this figure is up to date through the eighth week of
the 19-week cycle. We know the time to take profits is not too far away. Should the
stock be sold at this point?
On this precise day a fourthpoint on the boundary of a well-defined triangle has
been formed. Immediately we set up a cyclic analysis of the probable direction of
resolution.
1. Sum of components longer
in duration than 19 weeks
(center line of envelope
enclosing 19-week component)
2. 19-week component
3. 4-week component
4. 2-week component
5. 1-week component
Hard up.
9 weeks along.
Topping out.
216 weeks along.
Hard down.
Bottomingout to go up.
Bottoming out to go up.
Our signals are mixed as expected this far along in the trading cycle. However, we
expect immediate strength from two components, about one and a half weeks of
bottoming-out activity on a third, sideways push from a fourth and a general push-up
by the sum of the long duration ones. We would conclude that an upside resolution is
imminent but that the upside motion to be expected is limited. We are immediately
put on guard that profit-taking sell signals are to be watched for closely.
At this point we reverse our Valid trend line buy signal methods. Figure V-2
shows the resulting uptrend lines formed since the buy. The spot at which price has

--- PAGE 84 of 215 ---

91
You’veMade Some Money—How to Keep It
Valid UptrendLines—And A “Sell”Signal
pulled away from each successive trailing loss level establishes a new point on a
generally upcurving trend line series. At the triangle apex, we shift to trend lines based
upon shorter and shorter duration cycles. The day after the triangle analysis,price did
indeed break out on the upside, providing an opportunity to steepen our trend line
from one based on a four-week component to one based on a two-week cycle. Our
triangle analysis has assured us that the breakout willbe short-lived,in fact we expect a
four-week cycle low in about one and a half weeks. We would anticipate this to be a
lower low than the last one, and desire to take profits before thenif this should come
about. On the other hand if prices should continue to rise rapidly, we would like to
remain invested.
Figure V-2 shows what happened. The first day’s trading following triangle
resolution stalled prices at our latest trend line. The next day pulled nicely away again.
There has been no opportunity to set up a steeper uptrend line, so we live by the one
drawn. The next day the trend line was broken at 1214, providing the desired sell
signal—and a tidy profit! The validity of our decision is indicated by the fact that the
price of Gruen declined from this point steadily (though cyclically!) to 9 over the next
five weeks!
HOW TO MAKE AND USE NON-REAL TIME ENVELOPES
You now have available simple graphical techniques to provide all of the needed
investment action signals. However, the trading philosophy developed in Chapter One
places great emphasis on risk reduction and profit maximization. It never does any
harm to have an extra ace or two up your sleeve for this purpose.

--- PAGE 85 of 215 ---

92
You’veMade SomeMoney-How to Keep Jt
Another case in point: suppose that Gruen had not formed a price-move
termination triangle as it did. Are there any other criteria that could have been used to
detect
approach to the trading cycle peak? A much more generally applicable
technique is needed, andisprovided by the concept of non-real time envelopes.
The channel envelopes used so far are constructed in calendar or “real” time. But
we know that cycle durations vary over a range. This variation coupled with inability
to graphically separate components with accuracy sometimes leads to a situation where
all of the informationinherent in cycle presence is not displayed to us through channel
construction. This effect can be minimized by forming channels from cyclic highs and
lows that are artificially placed equidistant from one another on a pseudo-real time
scale. The detailed significance of time is thereby lost, but information is often gained
that is very valuable. Here’s how such channels are made:
•Go back over your chart and tabulate the successive prices of the stock at all intra-day
highs and lows associated with any component that you wish to plot in non-real time.
•Use a separate sheet of graph paper on which to plot these.
•Plot the first low on the stock chart on the far left vertical of your newplot.On the
very next vertical plot the next high.On the next vertical,plot the followinglow.
•Proceedin this manner until the data is exhausted.
•Form a smooth, constant, and minimum-width envelope through your data points.
Adjust width until all points are as closely related to the resulting channel aspossible.
Now what has been accomplished? Horizontal distances on your new chart still
represent time, but equal distances between points no longer necessarily mean equal
times have elapsed. In fact, component duration changes from any cause whatsoever
are completely eliminated. This envelope will not differ very much from the envelope
on your stock price chart—unless cycle duration change becomes significant But at
that point, the non-real time envelope will give you a much clearer picture of what is
happening than will the one plotted in real time.
Now try something else with your non-real time channel. On the lower channel
bound and on the same vertical line as each “high” that is plotted, place a distinctive
mark such as an asterisk. Do the same on the upper bound opposite each plotted low.
Now, your last data point on the chart will be either a high or a low plot, depending
upon whether the stock has last defined a cyclic high or low. Put an asterisk below or
above this point, and spaced just the channel width from it. Now you can draw your
non-real time channel, full width and right up to date. Note the slope and curvature
(either up or down) of the channel at this point, and extendboth channel bounds two
vertical lines on your chart into the future.The points of intersection of the extended
channel bounds with the next two vertical chart lines represent a best estimate of the
next high and low (or low and high) of the stock price at the times these should occur
per cyclic criteria.
Now go back to your stock price chart. For the component in question, average
sample durations and mark on your chart the predicted time locations of the next high
and low. Use the sample variation from average to show a time spread into which you
expect these points to fall. Read the predicted stock prices for these times from your
non-real time chart, add a reasonable plus and minus tolerance to these and plot the

--- PAGE 86 of 215 ---

[OCR] You've Made Some Money—How to Keep It 93

result on your stock chart as two “boxes.” To the best of your ability you have now
located the price and time regions into which the stock will move next. Continually
update this estimate by cyclic analysis as time passes and the stock price changes. You
will be surprised at how often the stock behaves per prediction!

There is another advantage in this type of graphical analysis. Occasionally the
inevitable band of uncertainty connected with a real time envelope will mask the
significance of a single day’s price action which actually portends a non-cyclic change
in the situation. The non-real time envelope will often catch such a situation, making
you aware of it in time to take appropriate action.

Needless to say, this technique may be combined with the sell signal criteria of
previous paragraphs to sharpen up your selling (or short covering) transaction timing.
In fact, let’s see how it would have worked in the case of Gruen. Figure V-3 shows
Gruen again up to and including the day of termination triangle resolution. Our
question on this day is how much further upside motion can we expect on this trading
cycle move?

At this point in time, we do not know for sure whether or not point I on the
chart is a low of the four-week cycle. However, assumption that it is will provide us
with a conservative answer to our question, which is to be desired. We proceed to label
each successive four-week high-low as A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H and our tentative I. The
four-week cycle was chosen for this purpose because it is the component of next
shorter duration than our trading cycle. Using the technique described above, the
nom-real time envelope for this case is drawn on the right, with corresponding peak and
valley labeling.

Now note the effect of the low at I! To get to this point from the low
corresponding to the high at H, the non-real time envelope must curve over sharply. We
further note that if we are wrong about I being a four-week cycle low, the envelope
would stili be required to curve over unless this low were as high as 14! Since this is
highly unlikely in view of the cyclic condition of things at this time, we are alerted that
major components are indeed in the process of topping out, and we should be
preparing to take profits. Note that this conclusion is identical with that derived from
the triangle resolution analysis—but this time there is no dependency upon the triangle
forming (in many cases it will not). We can go a little further. Continuing the turnover
from I through the next two verticals on the non-real time chart establishes a
conservative estimate of 12 3/4 for the next peak and II for the next low. With this
information in hand the actual top-out at 13 and valid trend line sell signal at 12%
come as no surprise, and lend credibility to your decision to take profits on the sell
signal. It is interesting to note that the real time envelope to the same point in time
provides no hint of a turnover for nearly another week—too late to act as the desired
confirmation of the sell signal. This is typical of thé use and value of the non-real time
envelope technique.

SELLING SHORT

In Chapter Four and so far in Chapter Five objective signals based upon the
price-motion model have been developed for “wait,” “buy,” “hold,” “sell,” and
“protect-loss” situations. Only two more are needed to round out our armory. These

--- PAGE 87 of 215 ---

94
You've Made SomeMoney-How to Keep It
Nou-Real
Time
Envelopes

--- PAGE 88 of 215 ---

You‘veMade SomeMoney—How to Keep11
95
are, of course, “sell-short” and “cover short sale” signals. By the nature of the
development so far, it is clear that nothingreally new is needed here.In fact, whenever
a sell signal is noted, an automatic sell-short signal is implied. However, it is very
important to keep one additional aspect of the situation firmly in mind: It is seldom
advisable to sell the same stock short that you have just profited in by making a buy!
Why is this true? Hark back now to our investment philosophy—which is aimed at
maximizing yield per unit time. Remember also that smooth, long-term fundamental
factors account for 75% of the price motion of a stock.In selecting a stock to buy, you
picked one in which the sum of all components of duration longer than your trading
cycle was trending up. This meant that youhad the impetus of the fundamental trend
also in your favor. In selling the same stock short, you are bucking this trend—which
cannot lead to yieldmaximization.
The correct procedure then is to select another issue in which the sum of all
components longer in duration than your trading cycle is down. Analyze this stock as
time goes along, just as if you had purchased it. When the trading cycle tops out
sendingup a sell flare, the simultaneous sell-short signalis valid.
Similarly, all of the techniques for buying into a stock are applied while you are
short the stock. As time passes, these techniques will eventually establish a buy signal,
at which time you cover your short sale! Cyclic analysis, real time and non-real time
envelopes, triangle resolution, valid trend lines and trailing “protect-profit” techniques
must all be applied as before while you hold your short position.
Now a word as to why you should ever prefer to sell short.Note theillustration
regarding the degree of time-synchronization of cyclicality in the Appendix. The
implication here is that as the DJ 30 (or S&P “500”) Average tops out on your trading
cycle (regardless of which one you have chosen), most individual issues are also near a
top-out on this cycle. It is true that synchronization is not perfect by a matter of days
(or even weeks for some of the longer duration components). Nevertheless, it is real
suicide to attempt to trade on cyclicality on the long side when the overall market as
measured by the averages is on a cyclic downside. On the other hand, if you simply
step aside at this point you are violating the principle of profit maximizationregarding
100% time investment of your capital.
What you must do is this: Always treat the Averages just like a stock. Keep a
running cyclic analysis going on the averages just as if it were possible (and you
intended) to buy them. As long as your analysis here is “buy” or “hold,” trade longin
individual issues. As your preselected trading cycle gets close to a top-out in the
averages, start to liquidate your long positions in issues (as sell signals are given), and
begin the search for suitable “short” candidates. The same applies in reverse as your
analysis of the averages indicates a bottoming of the trading cycle.
SELLING RULES TO REMEMBER
Now for a summary of our bag of sell tricks.
• Valid trend lines can be completed into short channel segments. The very short
duration component intra to this channel is the basis for an effective cut-loss criterion
based on the price-motion model.

--- PAGE 89 of 215 ---

96
You veMadeSomeMoney-How to KeepIt
• Trailing stop-loss levels can be based on confirmed lows of each cycle of duration next
shorter than the trading cycle.
• Triangle resolution should be used all along the line in connection with cyclic analysis
to provide insight into further price action.
•Non-real time envelopes can be used to help determine when to switch from trailing
ioss levels to short-term sell signal constructions.
• The concept of valid uptrend lines is an effective way of providing a sensitive
“take-profit” sell signal.
•Sell-short signals are reverse analogs of buy signals. Selling short can significantly
improve your percentage time invested.

--- PAGE 90 of 215 ---

chapter
six
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
•Why You Need Computational Aids
•How to Construct and Use Half-Span Moving Averages
•Other Uses For Half- and Full-Span Moving Averages
•Now Turn Your Averages Inside Out
•Use the Inverse Half-Span Average to Improve Your Timing
•Try the Inverse Average in Other Ways
WHY YOUNEED COMPUTATIONAL AIDS
The graphic techniques for making use of the price-motion model presented in
Chapters Four and Five are sufficient to vastly improve your timing. They may be
utilized as is, with no additional aid from computation, and will suffice to make the
investment philosophy of Chapter One work for you. However, decision confidence
can be greatly increased and the types of stocksin which you can work enlarged,if you
don’t mind adding some arithmetic. Admittedly, this requires more time and effort,
but the results can be extremely worthwhile.
Many, many computational approaches are possible. This chapter is intended to
introduce you to several of the simplest and fastest of these. When you learn to apply
the techniques given here, you will soon find yourself generating variations and whole
new methods. Just as long as these are soundly based on the model, they can be
considered valid. Further, the more elements of the model on which the technique
depends, the more powerful you will find the aid to be.
HOW TO CONSTRUCT AND USEHALF-SPAN MOVING AVERAGES
Valuable information is available each time a moving average with span equal to
one-half the duration of fire trading cycle changes direction! Let us examine this
characteristic of moving averages in connection with the nature of the price-motion
model to see why thisis so.
From Chapter Three and from the Appendix, the characteristics of moving
averages are summarized as follows:
97

--- PAGE 91 of 215 ---

98
Compute Your Way to increased Profits
•The span of a movingaverage is the length of time over which datais summed to obtain
themovingaverage. Forexample,a30-week movingaverageconsists of l/30th of the sum
of the weekly closing prices of a stock for the last 30 consecutive weeks. The span of
this average is therefore 30 weeks.
•A moving average ‘lags” the data it smooths by one-half ofits span. This means that if
the average is to represent a time-synchronized, smooth version of the data, the last
computed point of the average must be plotted one-half span behind the last available
data point. Thus, the last available point of a 30-week moving average is plotted
between the 15th and16th weeks behind the last closingprice of the stock.
•A moving average reduces precisely to zero the presence and magnitude of any cyclic
component with duration exactly equal to the spanof the average.
•All shorter duration components are drastically reduced, but may show some sign of
their presence.
•All longer duration components are definitely present. The longer the duration, the
more completely the fullmagnitude of the component comes through,
Now assume we have a stockin which a dominant component has been identified
with an average durationof 20 weeks. A moving average with a span of one-half of this,
or ten weeks, is constructed. The lag of this average is one-half of its span or five
weeks. Thus, when this average “tops out” and turns down, the 20-week trading cycle
has signalled a turnover at this point, but the price of the stock itself has been going
down for five weeks already.1 Remembering that it is the 20-week component that
caused both the ten-week average and the stock price to top out, it is seen that the
total downward move due to this component is just one-half complete at this time.
All of this occurs because the ten-week average will kill all price fluctuations of
exactly ten weeksin duration and drastically reduce all shorter ones. Since the 20-week
motion will come through at nearly full strength, the ten-week average will only change
direction when the 20-week cycle causesit to do so. Then the five-week lagis precisely
the time required for the 20-week cycle to drive prices half as far as the 20-week cycle
is going to carry them. Similarly, when the ten-week moving average bottoms out, the
stock has already been rising for five weeks—and is half as far up as the 20-week cycle
is going to driveit.
This quality of a half-span moving average can only work, of course,if the price¬
motion model is a correct representation of stock price fluctuations. That it does
work—time after time—is very powerful evidence indeed for the validity of the model.
Let’slistin order what must be done tomake use of this timing aid:
•Use a quick and rough envelope analysis to establish the average duration of a dominant
cyclic component on which you wish to trade.
•Construct a moving average of the closing prices of the stock whichhas a span equal to
half the average duration of the trading cycle.If this comes out to be a fraction, round
it off to the nearest whole number.
•Plot the moving average on the same chart used for the stock, taking care to lag the
average one-half its span behind the stock data.
•When the average reverses its direction to the downside note the price of the stock and

--- PAGE 92 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
99
how much it has already moved down. You may expect the downtrend to continue
until the stock has moved down this muchmore.
•Reverse this process for moving average reversals to the upside to establish how much
further up the stock will go.
The accuracy of this process can be further unproved by the use of two moving
averages. Proceed as before but compute and plot not only the half-span average, but
the moving average whose span is equal to the average duration of the trading cycle as
welt For the example used above, the trading cycle durationis 20 weeks.
The half¬
span moving average is a ten-week one. The fiill-span moving average is a 20-week
one. Now let’s see why this is of aid.
The half-span average tops out when the stock price has dropped 50% of the
20-week fluctuation amount. This means that the stock price is right in the middle of
the channel enclosing the 20-week cycle at this particular time. On the other hand, the
20-week moving average isalways in the middle of the 20-week channel (theoretically).
Remember, the 20-week average reduces the 20-week cycle to zero. Thus the 20-week
average represents the sum of all components of duration longer than 20 weeks, which
is exactly the import of the center line of the 20-week channel! The 20-week average
also drastically reduces the size of all shorter duration components, allowing only small
percentages of these to “leak” through-and these are easily recognizable and
graphically smoothed.
Now when your ten-week average tops out, you can extrapolate both the ten- and
20-week averages through their lag periods up to current time. This is quite simply
accomplished for the 20-week average especially, since it is so “smooth.” Note the
price level at which the stock, the ten-week moving average extrapolation, and the
20-week moving average extrapolation meet. Subtract this from the previous peak of
the current move down. This is your estimate of how much further down the stock will
go. A tolerance of ±10% should be allowed for the total move estimate.
As with all of the techniques discussedin this book, you should never rely on this
estimate alone. But combined with the others, this method provides powerful
confirmation of the validity of action signals. Let’s see howit works by example.
Figure VI-1 is a partial replot of the data on Alloys Unlimitedused as an example
in Chapter One. This stock displays a dominant component in this time period that
ranges from 17 to 22 weeks in duration. For the sake of computational simplicity we
will assign it (as our trading cycle) an average duration of 20 weeks. We need therefore
a ten-week (half-span) and a 20-week (full-span) moving average. The plot is presented
just as a decisionpoint is reached—the ten-week moving average has just bottomed out.
We note and smooth a remnant of a 12-week component from the 20-week moving
average. The result is shown in the plot as a dashed line.
We extrapolate both the ten- and 20-week averages to current time. These meet
the stock price at 41. The stock has already moved up from 32, a total of 9 points. We
expect it to continue another 9 points from 41—to 50. The total move predicted is 18
points. The tolerance is ±10% of this amount, or approximately 2points. We therefore
predict that this 20-week cycle will carry prices to between 48 and 52! If we had
purchased the stock on this type of criteria, coupled with any or all of the forms of
graphical analysis we nowknow about, theresultant conclusion is that we shouldhold the

--- PAGE 93 of 215 ---

100
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
37
36
35
34
33
49
48
47
46
45
43y
42
41
40
39
38
HALF-«>AM AVFRagE
FULL-SPAN A/ERAGE
SMOOTHED,FULL¬
SPAN AVERAGE
FIGURE VI-I
EXTRAPOLATED
INTERSECTION
UsingThe Half-SpanAverage ToPredict

--- PAGE 94 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to IncreasedProfits
101
stock for a move of about 9 more points. Further, any time the stock enters our
prediction area, we are alerted that we should be setting up and using terminal sell
signal procedures’.
Figure VI-2 shows what the stock did. It entered the tolerance zone eight weeks
later and topped out at 48 3/4! The sell signal generated here would also constitute a
sell-short signal. With the 20-week moving average trendingupwardin this issue, better
vehicles could be found for a short transaction. However, just to follow along with our
new technique, suppose we both sold and sold-short Alloys Unlimited at this point
around 47 or 48. How would we have fared?
Figure VI-3 shows the same stock three weeks later. Prices have declined to the
neighborhood of 42 and we have a 5- to 8-point profit. Should we take our profit here?
Well, we note also that the ten-week moving average has just topped out. Let’s
estimate how low we expect the stock to go. Extrapolatingboth the ten- and 20-week
averages results in an intersection with stock prices at 42. The stock topped out at 48
3/4 or 7 points higher. We expect it to go 7 points lower, to about 35. The total move
anticipated is 14 points, providing a tolerance of about ±1 1/2 points. We predict the
stock will continue to drop to the region of 33 1/2 to 36 1/2, The signal we’ve
generatedis “hold!”
Figure VI-4 shows what the stock did. The price entered the prediction zone four
weeks later, and bottomed out at 35 1/8! Once again we could use our cover-short
signal at these levels as a buy signal. Let us assume that we did so, covering our short
sale and buying into the stock in the neighborhood of 37 (which we could have done
any time within a five-week interval?).
Figure VI-5 shows the following action just as the ten-week average bottoms out.
Extrapolation of the averages resultsin intersection with the stock price at 43 3/4. The
stock has moved to this price from 35 1/8, or 8 5/8 points. We anticipate a further
move of this amount to 43 3/4+ 8 5/8 = 52 3/8. As usual, we put a tolerance of ±10%
of the total move about this price to get a zone of 50 5/8 to 54 1/8 with the target
price of 52 3/8. As Figure VI-6 shows, the price of the stock rocketed into this zone
the following week, remaining there for three weeks (plenty of time to get out using
graphical methods and daily charts). The actual top-out price was 52 7/8!
This sell signal is, of course, also a sell-short signal. Suppose we had sold here and
sold short at 51 to 52. Figure VI-7 shows the next reversal of the ten-week moving
average. On this transaction, prices have oscillated wildly between 44 and 51 for nine
weeks. We are somewhat concerned about our transaction, and wish to know whether
or not we should cut and run! Extrapolation of averages provides intersection at 46
3/4. This is 6 1/8 points below the preceding peak. Prices should go down to 40 5/8,
+1 1/4, or into a zone from 39 3/8 to 41 7/8. The stock entered this zone two weeks
later and bottomed out at 41!
This simple computational technique is one of the most powerful timing toolsin
your arsenal. It will not always provide as muchinformation asin this example, butit
should be the first computational technique you use as a backup to other methods. As
usual, the whole armory of defensive techniques (trailing loss levels, etc.) should be
employed to guard against the unexpected — which does occur occasionally. But,
properly used, it can add materially to your confidence in making buy and sell
decisions. Best of all, it is not an empirically derived method, but is solidly based on
the existence and nature of the price-motion model!

--- PAGE 95 of 215 ---

102
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
A Half-Span Average “Sell” And “Sell Short’ Sisnal

--- PAGE 96 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
103
The NextPrediction

--- PAGE 97 of 215 ---

104
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
A Half-Span Average “Cover Short” And “Buy” Signal

--- PAGE 98 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
105
A Half-Span Average “Hold Long"Signal

--- PAGE 99 of 215 ---

106
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
The Resulting “Sell” And “Seii Short”Signal

--- PAGE 100 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
107
A Half-Span Average “Hold Short”Signal

--- PAGE 101 of 215 ---

[OCR] 108 Compute Your Way to Increased Profits

OTHER USES FOR HALF- AND FULL-SPAN AVERAGES

Graphical cyclic analysis should, of course, accompany the use of all techniques.
In this case the two can interact very favorably. For example, looking back at Figure
VI-6 we see that there is absolutely no doubt whatsoever about how the 20-week
channel should be drawn. The 20-week moving average very nicely slices through the
center of solidly visible peaks and valleys which provide points on the desired envelope.

You will find some issues in which the situation is not this clear. In such cases,
“eyeball” the stock chart to get a rough feel for the dominant component. Construct a
half- and full-span average based upon your best estimate of the duration of this cycle.
You will find that plotting these averages makes identification of channel bounds very
much easier. After your channel is constructed, you will be able to refine your estimate
of trading cycle duration. If this is significantly different from the original, you will
then want to reconstruct the half- and full-span averages based upon your revised
durations.

Quite often a properly constructed set of averages will signal an envelope turn
before either real or non-real time envelopes could possibly provide this information.
Alloys Unlimited provides a typical example of this.

In Figure VI-S, it is impossible to know whether or not the 20-week channel is
pivoting upward (about the 32 1/8 low) without the aid of the moving averages. In
fact, the cycle high at 48 3/4 is lower than the preceding one at 49 3/4, leading to a
suspicion that the channel direction is still down.

Inspection of the 20-week moving average tells us exactly what is happening. The
trend here is definitely up—telling us that the sum of all components of duration
greater than 20 weeks is moving up. Since this is the center line of the 20-week
channel, this channel has to have bottomed with the 32 1/8 low and must now be
curving upward. The approximate amount of curvature is obtained from one-half
channel width measurements from the graphically smoothed 20-week moving average.
The envelope bounds so defined give envelope analysis estimates of 20-week cycle
moves that are in good agreement with those obtained by observation of ten-week
moving average turns. Note that this advance information was completely unobtainable
from envelope analysis alone until a subsequent cyclic top was formed and confirmed
at 52 7/8, a full three weeks later!

From this example it is seen that the graphical and computational techniques can
be used to aid and complement one another.

The same logic that leads to the use of half- and full-span moving averages to
predict amounts of moves can be used to generate back-up time information as well.

As shown in previous paragraphs, a half-span average reversal signals the half-way
point in a cyclic move in terms of magnitude. Now, when the half-span average reaches
mid-channel, the price of the stock has preceded it down to the theoretical low for the
move. But in predicting magnitude variation, we found it necessary to extrapolate the
haif- and full-span averages to intersection, which by definition is a best estimate of the
point where the half-span ayerage is at mid-channel. The theoretical low (in the
Predicted price zone) should take place one-half the span of the half-span average later.

Let’s use a ten- and 20-week (half- and full-span respectively) case as an example.

‘The ten-week average has just topped out. We extrapolate both half- and full-span
averages to intersection with the stock price. Note the calendar date on the chart at
which this occurs. One-half the half-span average span is one-half of ten, or five. We
expect the predicted low to occur five time units from the estimated intersection point

te,

--- PAGE 102 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
109
Return now to Figure VI-1 and VI-2. In Figure VI-1, note the time of estimated
intersection. You now predict zone entrance and high five weeks later. From Figure
VI-2 it is seen that zone entry and bottom-out took place nine weeks later. Thisban
example of about the poorest estimate correlation to be expected.In this case reliance
would havehad to be placed on other techniques to assure results.
From Figures VI-3 and Vl-4 we note intersection at 42 and expect bottom-out
five weeks later. Actual zone entry took place three weeks later, with a low achieved
six weeks fromintersection (an example of excellent correlation).
In Figures Vl-5 and VI-6 intersection occurred at 43 3/4. Top-out was anticipated
five weekslater. Zone entry occurred three weeks later with top-out at five weeks.
The reason for a larger percentage spread in timing is the existence of shorter
duration components which tend to swell or depress prices as they peak or low out.
Nevertheless, the method is of some use when allied with all of the other techniques
available.
Generally speaking, graphical envelope analysis
and valid trend lines can be
depended upon for the most accurate and detailed information regarding move
termination timing.
NOW TURN YOUR MOVING AVERAGESINSIDE OUT
You’re familiar now with the principal characteristics of a moving average, and
how the price-motion model generates criteria for getting the most from them.In this
section, you will find they have stillmore uses.
Let’s ask ourselves the question: Is there useful information in what a moving
average throws away?
We recall that a moving average “smooths” data. It does this by reducing the
magnitude of short duration fluctuations, while permitting the longer ones to remain.
In short,it throws away the short fluctuations.
What a Moving Average Throws Away Can Be
Recovered By Subtracting The Average From The Price-Motion Data
An example will clarify how this works. Suppose you form an 11-week moving
average of the weekly mean prices of a stock. This means that in the moving average
the magnitude of any cyclic component of duration exactly equal to 11 weeks is
reduced to zero. Thus, the average contains only cyclic components present in the
price motion which have durations longer than 11 weeks. Subtracting the average from
the price motion removes all these longer duration fluctuations, leaving only those
shorter than 11 weeks that did not appear in the average (or were “thrown away”).
The only critical item to remember (as always) is to match the moving average
and price data points properly before subtracting—taking into account the half-span
time lagpreviously described.
USE THEINVERSE HALF-SPAN AVERAGE
TOIMPROVE YOUR TIMING
There are many ways in which you can make use of the inverse moving average.
One of the most important of these is in connection with the half-span average
concept. Let’s see how it can work for you.
Direct your attention to Figure VI-8. Here is a weekly plot of Alloys Unlimited

--- PAGE 103 of 215 ---

110
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
The InverseHalf-Span Average

--- PAGE 104 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
111
over the entire time period covered by illustrations VI-1 through VI-7. This time,
instead of using a ten-week average, an 11-week one is shown. With the number of
elements of the average being “odd,” each average datum directly corresponds (in
time) to a weekly price datum instead of fallingin midweek (as for the ten-week one).
In this way subtraction can be accomplished directly without need for interpolation.
As formed, each moving average is subtracted from the corresponding mean weekly
price of the stock.
The results could be plotted as points about a “zero” base line, either by
themselves or connected by straight lines. However, the process of erecting vertical
lines from zero to the value of the difference (as in Figure VI-8) seems to provide the
eye with more information.
What can we make of this plot?
First of all, the dominant cyclic component just shorter in duration than the
trading cycle is now clearly evident. Counting weeks (low-to-low and high-to-high) and
averaging gives a nominal duration of 12.7 weeks, with a “spread” from ten to 16. The
correlation with an expected component of the price-motion modelis obvious.
Secondly, it is seen that the magnitude of this cycle averages seven points
peak-to-peak (±3 1/2 points). It is seen that the inverse average provides cycle
magnitude directly, without necessity for, and without the error inherent in, the
construction of envelopes!
Thirdly, we note that a simple process of subtraction converts a half-span average
(which is vitally useful on its own) into that specific inverse average which is most
capable of identifying the component of duration just less than that of the trading
cycle. As seen inprevious chapters, identification of this component is an essential part
of the process of setting up trailing loss levels and sell signalsingeneral. And, you will
normally have already computed the half-span average anyway!
Now. How does all this aid transaction timing?
Return to Figure VI-6 and VI-7. In the discussions regarding these figures it is
noted that the half-span average had put us in the stock short at 51 to 52. But,prices
seemed to refuse to go down—oscillating instead from 44 to 5i for nine weeks. The
half-span analysis assured us the stock was headed for 40 5/8. Does the inverse
half-span confirm this conclusion?
In Figure VI-8, the inverse half-span average is two weeks away from a low of the
12.7-week cycle. The stock price is an additional five weeks along (due to the lag of the
average). So, we’re now seven weeks along on a component (next shorter in duration
than the trading cycle) which averages 12.7 weeks, and varies from ten to 16 weeks. We
expect the next significant low of this cycle in a time zone three to nine weeks from
now.
In addition, the 21.7-week (average) duration trading cycle (which varies from 20
to 23 weeks in length) is now 19 weeks along from a low. We expect the next
significant low of this cycle in a time zone one to four weeks from now. Withboth of
these important cycles due to low out in the same general time period, we know the
stock still has more to go on the downside. In fact, taking 6/13 of 7 points, we expect
about 3.7 points more on the downside from the 12.7-week cycle alone. An additional

--- PAGE 105 of 215 ---

112
Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
3/22 of 14 or 1.9 pointsremainsin the 21.7-week cycle. The present price is 45 which,
less 4.6, leaves 40 1/2 as a low-out estimate.
We conclude that the stock will reach approximately 40 1/2 within one to nine
weeks. This estimate compares almost identically with that obtained using the
half-span average alone (40 5!8 in three weeks)—yet was obtained using information
the half-span average "threw away”!
With this additional reassurance, we do not hesitate to remain in our short
position—and the stock proceeded to bottom out at 41 the next week, nicely within
our tolerance zone!
TRY THE INVERSE AVERAGEIN OTHER WAYS
An inverse moving average can be formed from an average of any span. Any time
you wish to inspect a given component more accurately, simply form an average of
span equal to the component duration. The associated inverse average must show the
desired fluctuation at exactly the correct magnitude, since it is present in price to this
extent but is precisely zero in the moving average. Taking the difference between the
two displays this particular fluctuation on a zero baselinein all its glory!
This usage is particularly important as you are approaching buy and sell points.
Extract the higher frequency components in this way, and you will never have to guess
about trend line validity and channel turn-around.
Another excellent application: extract your trading cycle in this manner before
you act on buy signals. The state of the magnitude-duration fluctuation situation is
clearly
discernible
once the large, long components are removed. You may save
yourself from acting on a perfectly validbuy signal only to find your trading cycle has
shrunk to near zero in size!
Try the inverse average at triangle resolution points. Once again, the mechanics of
formation of these patterns via magnitude-duration fluctuation of short duration
components will be made very clear. In addition, the short duration component
information derived will aid greatly in pinpointingpattern resolution times.
TO SUMMARIZE
• Half- and full-span moving averages can be used to predict the extent of price
fluctuations.
•Envelope analysis is used to identify and establish the average duration of a trading
cycle.
•Two moving averages are then constructed. One has a span equal to the average
duration of the trading cycle. The other has a span equal to one-half the duration of
the trading cycle.
• These are plotted on the same chart as the stock, with due consideration for the time
lag ofeach.
♦When the half-span average reverses direction, important move prediction information
is made available.

--- PAGE 106 of 215 ---

Compute Your Way to Increased Profits
113
•Upon reversal, both half- and full-span averages are extrapolated to intersection with
the stock price on the chart.
•The price move from the previous trading cycle peak (or low) to the intersection price
representshalf the total price move anticipated.
•The predicted price is generated by adding (or subtracting as the case may be) the
peak-to-intersectionprice move to the intersectionprice.
• The total move is noted, and ±10%of thisis used as a tolerance about the target price
to create apredictionzone.
• A rough estimate of when zone entry or move peak-out will occur is gained by adding
half the span of the half-span average to the date of intersection. The time zone
tolerance about this date must be made quite broad.
•The half- and full-span average concept can be used tohelp establishcorrect envelope
bounds.
•Use of the full-span average can detect trading channel trend changes before real and
non-real time envelopes can do so.
•The technique is powerful, but should always be used in conjunction with all other
methods of prediction available.
•The inverse half-span average identifies the all important component just shorter in
duration than the trading cycle.
•Inverse averages display specific component magnitudes directly.
• Inverse averages used to extract a selected trading cycle can help establish the
condition of magnitude-duration fluctuations of that cycle.

--- PAGE 107 of 215 ---

chapter
seven
How to Select and Track Trading Issues
•Alternative Ways of Selecting Investment Vehicles
•The Total ScanningConcept
•Making Use of Screening Criteria
•Selecting Candidates For Volatility
•Applying Stability Factors
•When You Should Use Alternative Scanning Methods
•Take Advantage of the "Stable" Concept
•How to Track Your Stable
•Summing Up Selection and Tracking
Going back to Chapter One we recall that the four basic elements of a profit¬
optimizing trading system are as follows:
1. A profit-optimizing investment philosophy.
2. A fast and simple issue selection method.
3. Fast and simple transaction-timing analysis techniques.
4. Accurate and timely stock price tracking.
You now have inhandItems 1 and 3: This chapter suggests specific methodology
for the accomplishment of Items 2 and 4.
ALTERNATIVE WAYS OF SELECTING INVESTMENT VEHICLES
By this point you have realized that the existence of the "X” motivated cyclic
phenomenon and methods of utilizingit in transaction timing negate the importance of
many traditional ways of selecting issues on which to trade. Nevertheless, in keeping
114

--- PAGE 108 of 215 ---

How to Select and Track Trading issues
115
with the profit-maximization philosophy, much can be done at the level of selection to
limit tradingrisk and provide increased profit potential per trade.
You can proceed here in one of a number of ways. You can, for example, depend
wholly on issues brought to your attention via news items, brokerage recommen¬
dations, and the various stock advisory services. Once your attention is thus directed to
specific issues, you can proceed to assemble the required data and perform the
necessary cyclic analysis to determine when your commitments should take place.
Another route to go depends upon the daily newspaper, the Wall Street Journal,
orBarron’s weekly tabulations of stock data. Regular inspection of any of these sources
is capable of quickly revealing stocks and groups of stocks toward which large-scale
investor interest is directed. The most active list is a fertile source, or you can simply
run your eye down the listings looking for extreme volume numbers or large
percentage moves. The principal difficulty with this approach is the fact that by the
time a stock comes to your attention in this way, it usually is well along on a major
trading cycle, and you may have to analyze and track the stock for a long period
beforeit provides you with the low-risk action signal you want.
As in the case of trailing-loss-level signals,itis far better to use a selection system
soundly based on the price-motion model to begin with. Accordingly the rest of this
chapter will be devoted to such a method, one which is truly in the spirit of the
profit-optimization principle.
THE TOTAL SCANNING CONCEPT
There are more than 2,000 issues listed on the New York and American Stock
Exchanges.
Since this number is far greater than needed to provide all the
opportunities ever required for trading using the price-motion model, it is a good idea
to limit your attention to these issues. The most important reason for this is the ready
availability of data on stockslisted on these two exchanges.
We’re concerned here with selecting those issues as trading candidates which:
1. Provide the highest probability of the greatest gain per trade,and:
2. Provide ahighlikelihood of generatinga valid action signal in the very near future.
The object is always to have a “stable” of such issues at the ready, in order to
reduce the inactive time between trades to an absolute minimum. Properly handled,
the following techniques will assure a minimum of four or five action signals per day
from a stable of 12 to 20 issues.If you do not need this many, you may always reduce
the screening, analytical and tracking work required by limiting the size of your stable.
To implement the total scanning concept you require access to a comprehensive
charting service. Among many, two such services provide you with freshly updated
charts once each week onevery stock and warrant on bothmajor exchanges.
The Mansfield Stock Chart Service provides this coverage in the form of weekly
high-low-close charts. This service can be obtained from:
R. W. Mansfield Co.
26 Journal Square
Jersey City,New Jersey (07306)

--- PAGE 109 of 215 ---

116
How to Select and Track TradingIssues
The Geiergraph Stock Chart Service provides the same coverage in the form of
daily high-low-close charts. This service is available from:
Geiergraph
The Linden Building
1955 Merrick Road
Merrick,New York (11566)
Both may be requested air mail and special delivery, which puts them in your
hands early on the weekend no matter where youlive in the continental United States,
leavingplenty of time for issue selectionby Monday morning.
If these services are utilized, you will find that the task of selecting the highest
probability performers for the following week from every issue on both exchanges will
require little more than half a day. The rewards for this nominal amount of effort
makeit extremely worthwhile.
Let us assume that it is Saturday evening and you have the latest copy of one or
both of these two services at your desk. The initial step in the selection process we will
call the “scan.” With a little practice you will be able to accomplish the scan almost as
fast as you can turn pages.
You are looking for two things:
1. Issues that display dramatic visual evidence of dominant cyclicality.
2. Issues in which the general trend over the entire chart has just rounded a bottom
(if you are interested in the market on the long side), or have just bent over a top
(for your “short” candidates).
If a stock does not meet these two simple tests, ignore it and pass on. If it does
pass the test, stop and examine the chart more closely.
Note the average volume traded.Ifit isless than 10,000 shares per week (or about
2,000 shares per day), better candidates are available.
Observe the approximate status of a dominant cycle on which you would like to
trade. If either an edge- or mid-band signal seems imminent, write down the name of
the stock and continue.
You will normally find that your list contains 80 to 140 issues by the time you
finish the scan. If not, or if you desire more, relax your standards or re-scan using
alternative scanning criteria discussed in later sections of this chapter.
MAKINGUSE OF SCREENING CRITERIA
Typically the scanning process will provide you with an over-abundance of issues
from which to choose. All are reasonable candidates, but what you want are the elite
of the flock!
The following screening factors are based on information contained in the
Mansfield and/or Geiergraph services so that they are available at your fingertips. You
may use all or any part of these, with or without additions from your own background.
Just remember this: whether or not you make money on a trade in one of these issues

--- PAGE 110 of 215 ---

How toSelect and Track Trading Issues
117
is considerably more dependent on your skill and diligence in applying the
price-motion model than in the process you use for selection. Selection is of
importance only insofar asit serves to Improve the already high probabilities of turning
a profit because of the existence (and your knowledge) of cyclicality.
SELECTING CANDIDATES FOR VOLATILITY
There are three volatility factors of interest:
1. Capitalization: the number just under the stock name in Mansfield (in thousands of
shares).
2. Percentage motion: the extreme left hand scale of Mansfield.Measure with a ruler the
spacebetween several scale marks and divide into the interveningpercentage amount to
get “percent per inch.”
3. Short interest: the latest number in the top row of figures at the bottom of the
Geiergraph chart.
Volatility is a very important concept in the optimization of profit. A stock may
have an A+ rating, sell at a very low price with respect to earnings, have a high yield,
show all kinds of earnings growth, attract considerable investor interest, and still move
slowly in terms of percent per unit time. The principal factor involvedis capitalization.
Capitalization is the number of shares of the company outstanding. Anything
below 1,000,000 outstanding shares indicates the capacity for high volatility, meaning
that small amounts of buying can create enough demand to cause a large and rapid
increase in price. One to three million shares is considered to be light capitalization
from the standpoint of volatility. Three to six million represents medium capitali¬
zation. Over six million shares usually requires tremendous volume to cause reasonable
percentage moves. The lower the capitalization the better, as a measure of volatility.
Capitalization, however, is not the only key to volatility. An issue with three
million shares outstanding may have two million of those sharesheld from circulation
by corporate officers or other companies for the purpose of control, etc. Such an issue
is the equivalent of one with only a million shares outstanding that are all available to
supply demand. Average volume also affects the volatility potential of capitalization.
But a Mansfield chart has only so much space on which toplot two years of price
action. If the plotting scales chosen are such that the price action runs off the chart,
the entire chart must be replotted to a new scale. For this reason a rough measure of
overall volatility is provided by the number of inches (or fraction of one inch) required
to plot a one-percent change. This then is the meaning of the percent per inch
measurement you have taken on the percentage scale. The larger the percent per inch
number, the more volatile the stock.
Short interest is a measure of the number of shares that have been sold short (by
borrowing shares to sell at current prices in the hope of replacing them at a later date
with shares purchased in the market at a lower price). If an issue shows a high and
increasing short interest, upward price motion, once started, may tend to be extremely
volatile. As prices go up, the shorts rush to buy, causing extreme demand per unit time

--- PAGE 111 of 215 ---

118
How to Select and Track Trading Issues
and per unit volume. A high and increasing short interest indicates high potential
volatility.
APPLYING STABILITY FACTORS
Four stability factors are available from Mansfield:
1. Rating: in the extreme lower right-hand corner of the chart. This is given in the
form of: A, A—, B+, B, B—, etc.If none is present, use the Standard & Poor Stock
Guide Rating (available from your stock broker).
2. Price earnings ratio: die number on the left in the box in the upper left-hand corner
of the chart.
3. Yield: the number on the right in the same box as the price earnings ratio.
4. Earnings growth: a series of rows of numbers just below the volume base line. The
one you want is marked “c” (on the left). This is the accumulated quarterly
earnings for the past four quarters. Note the sequence of these from left to right to
determine the earnings growth trend.
In the process of winnowing down the number of issues you are interested in
analyzing, if all else is equal you might as well have a few of these so-called
fundamental factors on your side.
The rating is a composite measure of the quality of an issue. It represents the
considered judgment of fundamentals analysts as to the stability of the earnings and
dividend potential of the issue. The higher the rating, the more desirable from a
stability standpoint.
The price/earnings ratio is the current per share price of the stock dividedby the
yearly per share profits earnedby the company. While not a stability factor in the same
sense as rating, a low price earningsratio makes the stock more desirable in the eyes of
many investors. In assessinghow low this ratio is for a given stock, the historicalvalues
of the ratio should be considered for the particular stock in question. Mansfield shows
these ratios for most price turningpoints on the chart.
Yield is the current per share yearly dividends expressed as a percent of present
per share price of the stock. A high yield signifies large dividends, low prices, or a
combination of both, and adds to the desirability of the issue for the purpose of our
stability screen.
The final stability factor is earnings growth. Investors tend to discount in advance
the earnings potential of a company. That is, if the issue shows steadily increasing
earnings, investors tend to buy with the intent of selling when the earnings are higher
still, thus causing the issue to command higher prices than those paid. (This effect isto
be found as part of the relatively smooth 75% of price motion caused by fundamental
factors.) The more rapid the earnings growth indicatedby the cumulative four-quarter
earnings numbers shown in Mansfield, the higher the stability of the issue (for our
purpose).

--- PAGE 112 of 215 ---

How toSelect and Track TradingIssues
119
Summarizing the above characteristics, you desire:
Rating
High
Price/earnings ratio
Low
Yield
High
Earnings growth
Large
•Capitalization
Small
•Motion
Large
Short interest
Large
Volume interest
Large
This is what you look for if you are interested in buying the stock. If you are
looking for short-sale candidates, all criteria should be reversed except those marked
(•).
A WORD OF CAUTION AND EMPHASIS
Of the above criteria, volatility is by far the most important.If you have avoided
volatile issues in the past, remember that your situation and your capabilities have
changed completely now that you are aware of cyclicality. Volatile issues go both up
and down rapidly. Thismay have set anunacceptable risk level for youin the past.But
as risk is decreased through improved timing capability, volatility becomes a major
ingredientin the formula for profit optimization!
Do not make too much of an issue for yourself of the remaining screening factors.
They should be used for one purpose only: to get your scan list cut down to useful size
by the use of at least reasonably logical comparison criteria. Remember that stocks
fluctuate—cyclically. If you make a “meal out of a sandwich” in your screening
process, they will fluctuate on without you before you can get your analysis
completed!
WHEN YOU SHOULD USE ALTERNATIVE SCANNINGMETHODS
There are many variations of scan criteria. Cyclic readability, volatility, and
imminence of action signals should always be considered before all else. However, if
you cannot establish the number of issues you need on which to trade by these, orif
you remain dissatisfied with the quality of the resultant choices, re-scan using
alternative methods.
For example, scan looking for trianglesin the process of formation (on either the
daily or weekly charts). You have already witnessed the potency of using the
price-motion model to resolve these chart patterns. At any given time you are unlikely
to find more than a few, but these few are excellent candidates for your stable.
There is another technique which is soundly based on the model. While scanning
Mansfield, focus your attention only on the nine-year, yearly-high-low sub-chart inset
in the lower left-hand comer. What you are looking for is a steady and large declm*''

--- PAGE 113 of 215 ---

120
How toSelect and Track TradingIssues
several years (the more and the longer the better!), followed by no more than one year
of rising prices. Current price should still be low by comparison with the highs of
several years ago.
If the stock does not meet this test, ignoreit and pass on.Ifit does pass the test,
turn your attention to the main body of the chart. Now you are looking for a cyclic
pattern which is contained within a definite range over a period of nine to 24 months.
This range will be contained within a more or less horizontal envelope. Note the upper
bound of this envelope and whether or not the last week of trading has broken out of
the band on the topside. If so, add the stock to your list of candidates to be screened
as before.
What you are accomplishing, of course, is selection which assures you that the
large smooth sweep of fundamental motivationhas recently turned up. Quite obviously
investor interest in the stock is now stirring again and you wish to take advantage of
the resulting fundamental upward push—augmented by the cyclic action which rides
the fundamental like frosting on a cake! The analog of thisprocedure which applies to
short-sale candidatesis obvious.
Many variations of the scan arepossible, and each willproduce trading choices of
merit—as long as:
•The stocks are cyclically readable and volatile.
•The scan criteria you use are soundly based on price-motion model concepts.
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE “STABLE" CONCEPT
Now that you’ve got a half-dozen or so prime trading vehicles in hand—what do
youdo with them?
Here’s where the concept of a “stable” of stocks enters the picture. The purpose
of the stableis threefold:
1. To center your full interest and attention on a specific group of stocks on which
you will trade until the next periodic scan replaces issues with demonstrably better
ones—or action signals are given and passed by because you are fully invested in
other issues.
2. To force you to maintain current and up-to-date charts and analyses on your
chosen issues!
3. To assure the maintenance at all times of sufficient “ready-to-go” issues, so that the
idle time between tradesis minimized.
For general awareness, you can clip out and use the Mansfield and Geiergraph
charts directly. One simple way of handling these is to insert the daily Geiergraph and
weekly Mansfield charts side-by-side into plastic 5!6- by 816-inch folders available at
any stationery store. These already have a sheet of black “art” paper in them, against
which the charts show up vividly. They are punched, and can be inserted in
alphabetical order in a three-ring binder for the sake of compactness, or hung on hooks
on a pegboard if you like. With care, these can be updated in pencil daily if you have

--- PAGE 114 of 215 ---

How to Select and Track TradingIssues
121
chosen a short duration trading cycle. For long duration cycles, simply replace the
chartsperiodically.
However, these charts are far too miniature for graphical analysis accuracy. For
thispurpose youmustplot your owncharts. The problem is data. Pulling daily highs and
lows from a newspaper, or even weekly ones from Barron’s, is very time-consuming
(besides requiring maintenance of a tremendous back file of newsprint). One way
around thisis offered by the Investment Statistics Laboratory, a division of Standard&
Poor’s, in a publication called ISL Daily Stock Price Index.It comes to you quarterly,
and contains tabulations of daily and weekly high, low, close, and volume data on all
issues traded on the New York and American Exchanges. The books are hardback and
durable, and back issues are available as farin the past as 1961. With this serviceit is a
simple matter to extract and plot your own charts for analysis purposes. The maximum
amount of newsprint you need ever keep on hand is for 90 days—and this may be
discarded as soon as a new issue of ISL arrives.
With your stable charts in hand, complete your cyclic analysis on each. Do not
fail to update these analyses as time passes and the price motion of the stock permits
new or additional conclusions to be drawn. In addition, you may utilize the excellent
daily and weekly charts in Mansfield of the DJ 30 Industrial Average for analysis
purposes. This will keep you abreast of the market as a whole, and determine for you
whether the climate is onein which you should be takinglong or short positions.
HOW TO TRACK YOUR STABLE
If your time is limited or if you are investing very large amounts, you will be
forced to trade on longer duration cycles.In such a case, daily or even weekly updating
of your charts may satisfy your tracking needs.
However, if you are pushing towards real profit-maximization through the use of
short duration trading cycles, you will require more accurate methods of knowing what
your
stable is doing. This is especially
true if you are capitalizing on the
profit-compounding potential of mid-band action signals.
One way of accomplishingfine tracking is through the use of special buy and sell
orders. In this case you are depending on the exchange floor specialist to track your
stock for you. Unfortunately, there are severe drawbacks to this approach for our
purposes.
A better way is to station yourself or an aid at a brokerageduring the periods of
time in which you are awaiting action signals. Use of the tape display and/or the
electronic quotation devices there can provide you very fine tracking indeed.
The ultimate tracking tool is a combination dry-tape printer and analog computer
available from Trans-Lux Corporation. Called the “Personal Ticker,” this unit can be
installed in your home or office. By a simple process of exchanging slip-in tabs, this
unit is programmable for up to 40 particular stocks. Special arrangement with the
exchanges permits input by wire of each trade of all stocks—exactly as at your
brokerage. The unit then ignores all trades on stocksit is not programmed for—but the

--- PAGE 115 of 215 ---

122
How to Select ami Track Trading Issues
moment one of the stocks it is programmed for trades, the symbol, volume, and price
are immediately
displayed on tape. The unit acts as your personal watchdog.
Remember, the techniques you have learned tell you in advance what to do the
moment the stock price behaves a certain way. The personal ticker tells you instantly
when this happens.
SUMMING UP SELECTION AND TRACKING
•Any issue can be analyzed and traded upon using the price-motion model as long as
data on past performance is available. This means that specific issue selection can take
place in any of the traditional ways.
• However, for profit optimization, percent time invested must be maximized. This can
be best achieved by maintaininga stable of issues on which analysis is complete,andin
which action signals are constantly offered.
•Such a stable can be maintained through simple, but regular, scans of the charts of
many stocks.Modern charting services suitable for this purpose are available.
•Cyclic readability, volatility, and imminence of action signals are the most important
criteria to be used in scanning. However, any criteria that are logically based on the
price-motionmodel may be used for this purpose.
•The chart services themselves provide general tracking capability. However, graphical
cyclic analysis usually requires hand-drawn charts.
•Services are available which permit rapid extraction of data for the purpose of
constructingcharts to be used for analysis.
•Brokerage displays provide a means of fine tracking for mid-band action signals, or
when trading on short duration cycles.
• Tie Trans-Lux Persona! Ticker is the ideal instrument for fine tracking.

--- PAGE 116 of 215 ---

chapter
eight
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
• The Toolsat Your Command
• The Anatomy of a Trade
• Determining the "State of the Market"
• Selecting the Issue
• The Next Step Is Analysis
• Forming the Valid Downtrend Line
• Computing Potential and Risk
• A Model Transaction
• A Trading Experiment
• Prediction of the Averages
• The Results of Industry Group Predictions
• Specific Issues Involved
• Conclusions
The preceding chapters have provided the elements of a probabilistic system of
profit maximization, based on a logical price-motion model. It is time now to pull
these elements together and see how well such a system can be expected to work in
actual practice.
THE TOOLS AT YOUR COMMAND
What is available to you is a set of general and a set of specific tools. The nature
of the price-motion model is such that these can be tailored to a wide range of
investment objectives. Such objectives are, in turn, based on the amount of capital to
123

--- PAGE 117 of 215 ---

124
Trading by LogicInstead of by Guess
be managed, market conditions, and the time and effort available for selection,
analysis, and price-tracking.
Thegeneral tools at your disposal include the following:
• Understanding of the existence and nature of cyclicality in stock prices—and the
implications for improved transaction timing.
• Understanding of the impact of improved timing on profit maximization. The essence
of improved timing is reduction of trading risk, permitting shortened trades and
profit-compounding. The yield oninvestedcapital isultra sensitive to these factors.
• Shortened trading intervals and the need for maximization of time invested demand
rapid and efficient issue selection and analysis. The “scan” and "stable” concepts of
Chapter Five
meet the issue selection requirements—while the graphical and
computational methods of Chapters Four,Five, and Six satisfy the analysisneeds.
The specific tools available are all techniques for converting the concepts of the
price-motionmodelinto objective action signals. Theseinclude:
•Sufficient understanding of the cyclic model to permit envelope analysis.
•Sufficient understanding of the mechanics of formation of chart patterns to permit
their resolution by means of cyclic analysis.
•The identification and resolution of triangles.
•The identification andresolution of valid trendlines.
•The meaning and use of the concepts of edge- and mid-band timing.
•The concepts of cyclic-channel-based “cut-loss” or “profit-preservation” trailing sell
levels.
•Understanding and useofnon-real time envelopes.
•The function, significance, and use of half- and full-span moving averages.
•Understanding of the interplay between moving average characteristics and the
elements of the cyclic model, so that such averages can be used to interpret cyclic
phenomena.
•The nature and use of inverse moving averages.
THE ANATOMY OF A TRADE
The date is 1 November 1968. We’re ready to put our new-found knowledge to
work. How do we go about it?
The first question to be answered is: “Should we be looking for opportunities to
buy or to sell short?” To answer, we must form a judgment of the cyclic status of the
market as a whole. The very first thing to do is to apply cyclic analysis to the averages!
DETERMINING THE “STATE OF THE MARKET”
Returning to Figure 11-7, we find we’re 24 months along on the nominal 4.5-year
component of the cyclic model. We also see from Figure H-8 that inrecent years this
cycle has averaged 52 months in duration. We’re almost half-way along—and top-out is
approaching. This means we cannot expect buoyancy from this very large amplitude

--- PAGE 118 of 215 ---

Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
125
cycle for a long time to come. On the other hand, we donot expect a low-out on this
component for another 28 months, which will place it in the vicinity of the first
quarter of 1971. The push from this cyclic model element will be slightly up-to
sideways—over the near term.
Now glance at Figure II-2. The low of 817.61 on this chart occurred during the
week ending March 22, 1968. In the text accompanying Figure II-4, this low was
shown to be due to the nominal 18-month cyclic component of our model—and is the
last such low before the present date of November 1,'1968. Thus, we know we are 32
weeks along on this component, which (as shown in Chapter Two) has been averaging
71±4 weeksin the near past. A top-out isexpected in this cycle at approximately 35 to
36 weeks, leaving only three to four weeks on the upside at most
Comparing Figures 11-2 and II-3, we see that the latest low of the 26-week
component of our model occurred at the point marked “J”in Figure II-3, The Average
reached a low of 863.33 at this time, the week ending 9 August 1968. We are now 12
weeks along on this cycle, which was shownin Chapter Two to have averaged 21.4±3.5
weeks in the near past. Thus we expect this component tohave topped out one to two
weeks ago—and to be gently on the downsideby now.
Without going further we can state several conclusions regarding our trading
operationsin the near future starting 1 November 1968:
•The 4.5-year cycle is only several months froma top.
•The 18-monthcycle is three to four weeks from a top.
•The 26-week cycle has already topped out one to two weeks ago.
•The combination of slight upward momentum from the 4.5-year and 18-month
components should temporarily overweigh the 26-week component-but only for the
next three to four weeks, after which both the 18-month and 26-week cycles willbe
downside, with only a flattening 4.5-year cycle to buck out.
•We expect a last near-term push to the market, followed by considerable downside
activity’
•We should trade long for about a month—then switch to the short side of the market
as our action signals develop!
•For the immediate future, we’re looking for buying opportunities,bar—we’re going to
be very cautious, keep the trades short,and be ready to reverse our stance quickly. We
will not expect large yields per trade, since we are in the vicinity of amarket top-out.
Here is an excellent example of the aid a minimal computational effort can
provide. Since our cyclic analysis tells us we are approaching the market at a non-ideal
time (conflicting action of several major cyclic components), we would like an
independent evaluation of our conclusion regarding a short-term upside movement. We
will apply the technique of half-span averages to give us this confirmation.
Figure VIII-1 is an expanded weekly plot about the 21.4-week cycle low of 9
August 1968. Using a ten-week moving average (as a close approximation to a half-span
for 21.4 weeks), we see that the low of August 9 is indeed a low of the 21.4-week
cycle. One-half of the half-span average span of ten weeks is five weeks. Five weeks
from August 9 puts the DJIA in the neighborhood of 930. The action of the DJIA and

--- PAGE 119 of 215 ---

126
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
Analyzing The Dow

--- PAGE 120 of 215 ---

Trading by LogicInsteadof by Guess
127
the ten-week moving average since that time confirms a conjunction point, the week
ending 27 September 1968, at 932. We expect the move from the low of 863 to 932 to
be one-half of the totalmove, which should continue to total 138±14. This would take
the DJIA to 1001+14, or 987 to 1015 with a target of 1001. The closing value on
Friday, 1 November 1968, was 948.4, so we are anticipating a minimum move of 39
points tomarket top-out.
This analysis neatly confirms the conclusions derived from cyclic status—and we
can feel free to continue as planned.
SELECTING THEISSUE
Scanning the Mansfield charts of 1 November 1968, the techniques of Chapter
Seven bring Screw and Bolt Corporation (New York Exchange) to our attention,
amongothers.
This stock, after trading between 8 and 14 for 15 months, broke out to 18inlate
September. As of November 1, the price haspulled back steadily for five weeks—and is
now tradingbetween 14 and 15. Pronounced cyclicality is evident inpast pricemotion,
suggesting simplified analysis requirements. The average volume is 30,000 shares per
week—well over the minimum required to assure investor interest. A quick check with
abit of scratch paper confirms imminence of an edge-band buy signal.
Digging deeper, we find that volatility is assured by the above-average %/inch
figure for the scale on the left side of the Mansfield chart Capitalization is a small
1,663,000 shares, which along with the high average volume both explains and assures
continuedrapidprice motion.
The quality rating of B and a cost-earningsratio of 20 denote acceptable stability.
Of stillgreater interest in thisregardis the earningsgrowth trend:
CUMULATIVE 4-QUARTEREARNINGS
2nd quarter, 1967
0.83
3rd quarter,1967
0.66
4th quarter,1967
0.41
1st quarter, 1968
0.43
2nd quarter, 1968
0.51
3rd quarter, 1968
0.72
Earnings are seen to have reversed a downtrend and established a brisk rate of
growth.
This issue (along with about 20 others of similar interest) is selected by the scan
for further analysis from all issues on both the New York and American Exchanges for
this particular Friday-November 1, 1968.
THENEXT STEPIS ANALYSIS
Let’s follow Screw and Bolt through initial and detailed transaction timing
analysis.

--- PAGE 121 of 215 ---

128
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
The weekly high-low data is taken from ISL (see Chapter Seven), Barrons, the
Wall Street Journal, or other available sources. Carefully plotted, the results appear in
Figure VIII-2. As usual at this point, little can be said as to whether the stock is a
‘buy,” or hasmore to go on the downside, or when.
Tracing from this master chart we conduct a cyclic state analysis as shown in
Figure VIII-3.
A single, constant-width envelope is drawn, and immediately generates pertinent
information.
•The price motion up to the last 14 weeks demonstrates magnitude diminuation of a
major cyclic component per the principle of variation.
•Two samples of the dominant component are present in the plot — of 20- and 16-week
durations respectively. The average for these two samples is 18 weeks. We recognize
this duration as consistent with the price-motion model.
•Each such component is seen to be sharply divided into two segments- of seven to 12
weeks in duration (average 9.2 weeks). While somewhat short to compare with the
13.0-week component of the model, we accept the results of our observation subject
to verification.
•Each of these is further divided into two segments of four to seven weeks in duration
(average 5.2 weeks). This is seen to compare to the 6.5-week cycle of the principle of
nominality, with the tolerancesof theprinciple of variation.
•The center line of the channel is hard up — telling us that the sum of all components
longer in duration than the 18-week cycle is providingup impetus to price-motion.

--- PAGE 122 of 215 ---

Trading by Logic Insteadof by Guess
129
The Weekly PredictionPlot

--- PAGE 123 of 215 ---

130
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
Because of the rather large variation in observed duration from model nominal,
we check, our conclusions using an inverse moving average. A span of 19 weeks is
chosen (18 would be ideal, but being an even number would require interpolation
before subtraction from corresponding prices). The 19-week moving average of the
weekly mean prices is formed and subtracted from the correspondingmeans. You will
recall that the effect of this operationis to display about a horizontal base line the sum
of all components shorter in duration than 19 weeks. The result is shown at the
bottom of Figure VIII-3. With minor differences, the results of observation are found
to be confirmed.
The next step is to extrapolate the average (and variation from average) durations
of the three periodicities found, identified as SeriesI,II, andIIIin Figure VIII-3. To
do this, we measure forward in time from the last identified low of each, and obtain
the overlapping shaded areas marked I,II, and III. This is an expected nest of lows,
and is seen to extend from present time to about three weeks into the future. We
expect a significant buying opportunity in this stock-soon!
Having passed the initial analytical tests as an issue of interest, we now wish to
construct our “working” chart. Gathering daily data from the last low of the 18-week
cycle and plotting produces Figure VIII-4. The envelope and nest of lows are
reproduced on this chart from the preceding figures.
As expected, going to daily data produces new information regarding still shorter
duration components. The one that is most dominant is eight to 11 days long, or an
average of 9.9 days. We are now ready to state the cyclic condition of the stock for the
following week as follows:
The Daily Prediction Plot

--- PAGE 124 of 215 ---

Trading by Logic insteadof by Guess
•Sum of alllong duration components
• 18-week component
• 9.2-week component
• 5.2-week component
• 9.9-day component
131
Hard up
14 weeks along.
Down,but due to
bottom soon.
4 weeks along.
Up,but topping soon.
4 weeks along.
Down,but bottoming
soon.
4 days along.
Up,but toppingsoon.
The present score, three up and two down. Two of the ups are due to top out
soon and two of the downs tobottom out soon—at the “nest” The cyclic status is one
of near equilibrium at the moment, with nothing calling for further downside activity
in the near future.
On the other hand, in a short time, around the nest area, the situation will be
altered to the point where all five components will be simultaneously on the upside.
We conclude that this stock is very near a buy signal.
FORMING THE VALID DOWNTREND LINE
At this point we must identify the cyclic component on which we desire to trade.
We know that the shorter the trading interval selected the greater the percent per unit
time yield we can expect. We also know that we can increase our yield by passing by
the up-coming edge-band buy signal, and waiting for a mid-band opportunity. The only
considerations involved inmaking a decision are the amount of funds we wish to invest
in this stock, and the amount of time we have available for analysis. Let us assume in
this case that the funds involved are $100,000 or less (allowing us to get into and out
of the stock relatively quickly), but that the amount of time available to us is
somewhat limited. Accordingly, we make the decision to operate on the 18-week cycle,
with the corresponding limitation on yield rate, in order to obviate the need to
maintain a number of stocks analyzed and ready to provide numerous action signals.
With this decision made, we select the next shorter duration component as the
basis for our valid downtrend line—or the 9.2-week one. We note from Figure VIII-4
that we’re already over the top of the second 9.2-week cycle, and draw in the
associated trendline, which terminates in the heart of the expected nest of lows as it
should. We determine that if no other steeper valid trend lines form before, we will buy
the stock asit crosses the trend line drawn.
COMPUTING POTENTIAL AND RISK
At this point we can invoke a neat trick based upon half-span averages to estimate
upside potential and downside risk.
We note that a ten-week moving average approximates a half-span for our trading

--- PAGE 125 of 215 ---

132
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
cycle. If our analysis is correct, and the present downside trend is reversed within our
nest of lows, a ten-week moving average must also halt and reverse a downtrend at this
point in time.
However, this effect will not be seen for another five weeks (the lagperiod of the
centered ten-week average). For the average to turn upwards now (as computed five
weeks from now), the mean weekly price five weeksin the future must be greater than
the one six weeks in the past. Referring toFigure VIII-2, we see that this criticalprice
is 17 1/2.
This tells us that if our analysis is correct, prices will have moved from about 14
1/2 now to 17 1/2in the next five weeks. But this willbe only half of the total move
expected (see the theory of half-span averages in Chapter Six). We would anticipate
another 3 points, taking prices to 20 1/2 before the move is complete. Our estimated
upside potential is thus 6 points, as compared to a downside risk of approximately 1/2
point plus commissions—since our first trailing loss level would be at 14. Such odds,
plus the expected batting average of 80 to 90 percent correct decisions, confirm the
desirability of the transaction.
We are now primed and waiting for an action signal.
A MODEL TRANSACTION
Figure VHI-5 replays the subsequent events and the accompanying analysis.
The next day—Monday, the 4th of November— establishes the action of the
preceding Friday as due to a top of a component of shorter duration than that upon
which valid trend line #1 (VTL 1) was based. Accordingly VTL 2 is drawn, and it is
determined that a single trade above thisline will constitute a buy signal.
The market was closed Tuesday, November 5, but on Wednesday, the 6th, the
stock openedabove VTL 2,andthe signa! wascomplete for the placement of buy orders.
We will assume that the order was executed at the mean of thehigh-low range for the
day (15 1/2). Simultaneously, we draw in TLL-1 as our first trailing loss level, and we
determine to sellinstantlyif prices trade below this value (14 1/8)—or alternatively, we
enter a stop-loss order at this price.
The stock behaves as expected in the following several weeks until the move of
November 26. This established the preceding pause in the vicinity of 15 1/2 as the
stretched upward low of
a short-term component which will be used later in
establishing a valid uptrend line. Also, the duration of this element isnoted, for the last
several cycles, as being about 25 days. These durations are then used to establish the
cross-hatchedregion, “A,” as a potential next low for this component.
Meanwhile, we note that a ten-week moving average (constructed as a reasonably
close half-span of the 18-week component) is just starting to turn down toward the
expected low around the 1st of November. We know this average must bottom out in
this time region, and turnup once again when prices have advanced approximately half
as far as they will be pushed by the 18-week cycle. Since thishas not occurred as yet,
our prevailing signal is “hold,” and we know that all is well with our trade, barring
unforeseen fundamental factors that can override the cyclic expectations. This

--- PAGE 126 of 215 ---

Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
133
49.7%Profit In 57 Days!

--- PAGE 127 of 215 ---

[OCR] 134 Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess

possibility we have guarded against with our “profit preservation” or “trailing loss
level” setup.

On Friday, the 6th of December, the expected upturn of the ten-week average
occurs (as shown circled in Figure VIII-5). The extrapolation of the upturm is shown
dotted, with an intersection with price motion at 18 1/8. (Remember to use the
approximately equal time span between intersections of this average with the center
line of the envelope which contains the component of which it is half-span as a guide
to extrapolation. Alternatively, a 20-week average could be constructed and extrap-
olated to serve the same purpose.)

The move so far has been from 14 1/2 to 18 1/8. This is expected to be one-half
of the total move, which now is targeted at 18 1/8 + 4 = 22 1/8. A tolerance of 10%
of the total move is applied, providing 22 1/8 +.8. Rounding off and shifting down by
1/8 (for convenience and to be conservative), sets 21, 22, and 23 as the lower, target,
and upper limits respectively of the anticipated move. This prediction area is shown
cross-hatched in Figure VIII-5.

On December 19th, the action of the 17th is shown to be the low that was
expected in region “A,” and valid uptrend line VTL-3 is drawn. Four days later prices
sweep into the prediction zone, and we have a choice to make. Either we can take
profits now, or we can shift to the use of increasingly steep valid uptrend lines and ride
out the remainder of the move, if any. If the latter course is chosen, we set up the
cross-hatched area at “B” as the expected low time zone for the previously noted
9.9-day component, and this low is firmly established by the price action of December
31st. VIL is established on this day. But prices have now swept well past our pre-
diction zone to a high of 24 3/4. We are now nine weeks along on the 18-week cycle,
and time is running out. The same price action that set up VTL allows us to draw
VTL-5 (from low-to-low of the last two days’ motion). We determine that if prices con-
tinue to rise and remain above VTL-5 we will remain in the stock, but a puncture of
this trend line on the downside will be interpreted as a sell signal. The following day
this signal was flashed at a price of 23 7/8, 1 7/8 above our predicted target level. The
use of increasingly steep valid trend lines based on very short duration components has
extracted a tidy increment of profit for us.

The use of trend lines formed by daily lows is not to be considered a standard
practice. The elements of the situation that dictated this action here were:

@ Price levels were already above our prediction zone.
© Price levels were rising above even our extrapolated envelope bounds.
© Cyclic time was running out on our trading cycle.

Such a “blowoff” is normally followed by an equally rapid price contraction, and
the steepest possible trend lines should be used to provide the take profit signal.

We bought at 15 1/2 on November 6, 1968, and sold in the vicinity of 23 7/8 on
January 2, 1969. We made 49.7% profit on invested funds after costs in a total of 57
calendar days. The equivalent annual yield rate is 318% per year. Impressive as this
seems, it must be kept in mind that still higher yields are possible if a selection is made
of shorter cyclic components on which to trade. For example, this same issue was

--- PAGE 128 of 215 ---

Trading by LogicInsteadof by Guess
135
traded in the experiment described in the next section in which the objective of very
short trading intervals was set. The result was apurchase at 16 1/2 and a sale at 17 1/2,
in an elapsed time of one day. The gross percentage gain was only 6%, and the net
(after costs) was further reduced to 3.2%. However, on an annual basis this amounts to
1168% per year. The price paid for this kind of performance was the necessity of
having many other fully analyzed stocksinreserve so that the funds could be put back
to work elsewhere immediately. By way of contrast, the previous example required
time and effort to be spent on one stock only, over a period of nearly two months.
One further comment is in order before leaving this example. The amount of
analysis described was that which was just sufficient to resolve the decision problems
established by price action. If time is available,all the techniques describedinprevious
chapters should be applied and the results updated regularly.In some cases some of the
methods will produce no new information, but the occasional situation where extra
analytical effort avoids an incorrect decision makes the additional time spent well
worth while.
A TRADINGEXPERIMENT
The above issue was one of 35 that were analyzed and used in the first real-time
trading experiment designed to apply the principles of the preceding chapters. This
experiment was conducted from 28 October to 10 December 1968. The circumstances
were as follows:
•Objectives were set at 10%return on invested capitalin an average transaction interval
of 30 days. Such a return, if continued without interruption, would compound
$10,000into $1,000,000in approximately 44months.
•It was decided that buy andprofit-preservation signals wouldbe usedper the methods
described, but that profits would be taken at the arbitrary level of 11.1%. In this
manner it was planned tohold the transactioninterval down and to establish aslarge a
sample of trades as possiblein the shortest possible interval of time.
•Operations were to take place from an office equipped to display the issues analyzed
and tracked. A team of five was used to scan weekly charts, select issues for analysis,
conduct analysis, and track prices for action signals.
•One member of the team used brokerage displays to track tradesin the selected issues
for action signals.
Theresults of this operation are summarized as follows:
•Three short term “market” turns were successfully predicted as shown inFigure VHI-6.
•Two Industry Group turns were predicted with the results shown in Figures VIII-7 and
VIII-8.
•A total of 42 transactions was completed in 35 issues. Thirty-eight of these were
successful, and four were failures, resultingin a success rate of 90.5%.
•The yield objectives were surpassed. Attained results were 8.9% net profit each 9.7
days. The equivalent annual yield rate achieved was 2474%per year as contrasted with
the objective rate of 313.8%. The achieved rate of return, if continued without
interruption, would compound $10,000 into $1,000,000 in approximately 15 months!

--- PAGE 129 of 215 ---

136
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
IOOOt
990
980
970
960
950 -
940-
930
920
910
FIGURE W-6
TRADING EXPERIMENT
MARKET TURN PREDICTIONS
DJIA-DAILY
DENOTES DATE,NATURE.
OF TURN PREDICTIONS I
(D
PredictingShort-Term Moves InThe Dow

--- PAGE 130 of 215 ---

Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
137
AIRUNE MOVE PREDICTION
27 OCT 1968
PERCENTAGE GAM
0
8
12
18
20
24
28
38
FUFING TIGER
•CONTINENTAL
♦KLM
i
NATIONAL
i
AMERICAN
'
;
WORLD AIRWWS
r transworld
PAN AMERICAN
DELTA
NORTHWEST
EASTERN
SEABOARD WORLD~
PACIFIC SOUTHWEST
;
WESTERN
UNITED
"
: * BRANIFF
FIGUREW-7
AVERAGE GAIN—213»
The Techniques At Work OnGroup Averages
SAVINGS AND LOAN GROUP MOVE PREDICTION
WERAGE GAIN— 2121»
Another Group-Move Prediction

--- PAGE 131 of 215 ---

138
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
PREDICTION OF THE AVERAGES
The operation began on 23 October 1968 with the analysis of the DJIA described
at the start of this chapter. The analysis was extended by envelope and half-span
average methods toproduce the first three predictions showninFigure VIII-6.
In this figure, the solid vertical bars show the times of predictions made, and the
arrowed leaders indicate the time-price regions predicted. Prior to 23 October, the
market was on the upside. The analysis called for an immediate drop to the 930-950
area, followed by a rise to between 960 and 1000. This was to be followed by a steep
drop to between 890 and 930.
As time progressed, the initial short-term low was achieved, and on the 12th of
November, the time region for the expected major high was refined and expanded as
shown.
On the 25th of November, the time of the target low at 910 was revised from late
December to early January 1969. Note that this prediction was being refined even
before the expected top in the vicinity of 1000 was reached!
The final prediction of the series was made on the 4th of December. At this time
the market had reached the target zone for a top-out, but had not as yet started the
subsequent decline. Although the experiment was terminated shortly thereafter, the
following market action shows how precise the prediction of the low to follow turned
out to be.
THE RESULTS OF INDUSTRY GROUP PREDICTIONS
Figure VIII-7 shows the results of the first Industry Group turn prediction of the
experiment, and the subsequent price moves of all issues in the group during the
experiment. The minimum move was 8.2%, the maximum was 37%, and the average
move was 21.5%. Recalling that the experiment objectives were 11.1% gross, the
predicted move provided an average safety factor of more than 2.0.
The Savings and Loan Group move was called on the 8th of November with nearly
identical results, as indicated inFigure VIII-8.
SPECIFIC ISSUES INVOLVED
The tabulation of Figure VIII-9 shows the specific issues analyzed and tracked
through buy and sell signals during the experiment. All action signals for these stocks
(as well as for the Dow andIndustry Group Averages) were noted as they occurred and
reported by daily memorandum to impartial observers. The asterisks of the figure
indicate issues on which actual portfolios were managed. The remaining action signals
were not acted upon, but were used as insurance to assure 100% time investment of
funds (which was achieved throughout the experiment). The buy and sell prices are the
actual values recorded by memorandum on the dates indicated, or the actual buy and
sell prices for those cases where funds were invested.

--- PAGE 132 of 215 ---

139
Trading by LogicInsteadof by Guess
issue
TradingExperiment Results
Analysisof Buy-SeJI Recommendations
(10/23/68 Through 12/10/68)
%
Days
Invested
Buy Date
Sell Date
Buy Level
Sell Level
* 1.
CHD
11/12/68
11/29/68
38-1/4
42-1/2
+11.1
17
2.
CR1
11/13/68
11/18/68
61-1/2
68-1/4
+11.0
05
* 3.
KLM
11/7/68
11/12/68
59-1/2
69
+15.9
05
4.
NWA
11/8/68
11/29/68
85-3/4
95-1/4
+11.1
21
* 5.
GLP
11/6/68
12/10/68
17-3/4
18-3/4
+05.6
34
6.
FTR
11/6/68
12/2/68
35
38-5/8
+10.3
26
* 7.
DMC
11/7/68
11/15/68
39-1/4
46
+17.2
• 08
8.
AIT
11/12/68
11/22/68
30
34-1/2
+15.0
10
* 9.
ADB
12/3/68
12/10/68
23-1/2
25-5/8
+09.0
07
*10.
PKE
11/12/68
11/15/68
13-1/4
14-3/4
+11.3
03
11.
AEX
11/7/68
11/14/68
50
53-7/8
+07.7
07
12.
BOU
11/29/68
12/10/68
27-1/2
31
+12.7
II
13.
CHI
11/14/68
12/10/68
34
37-1/8
+09.2
26
*14.
PKN
11/12/68
11/18/68
48
54-1/2
+13.5
06
*15.
AU
11/7/68
11/18/68
45-1/2
50-1/4
+10.4
11
*16.
VIK
11/7/68
11/12/68
30-1/2
34
+11.5
05
17.
ARD
11/12/68
11/22/68
157
174-1/4
+11.0
10
*18.
WYL
11/8/68
11/15/68
38
42
+10.5
07
19.
FAM
11/8/68
11/12/68
27-1/2
29-3/4
+08.2
04
*20.
CAL
11/8/68
11/18/68
20-7/8
23-1/2
+12.5
10
21.
sew
11/8/68
11/27/68
15-1/2
17-1/2
+12.9
19
22.
CRT
11/8/68
11/15/68
35-1/8
39
+11.0
07
23.
BNF
11/12/68
11/22/68
20
22-3/4
+13.5
10
*24.
GW
11/12/68
11/29/68
25-1/4
30-1/4
+19.8
17
25.
WBL
11/13/68
11/22/68
9-3/4
10-7/8
+11.5
09
26.
BCE
11/26/68
11/27/68
14
15-5/8
+11.8
01
27.
WOR
11/12/68
11/15/68
9-3/4
10-7/8
+11.5
03
*28.
FCF
11/13/68
11/13/68
35-1/4
39-1/8
+10.7
01
29.
LPT
11/25/68
12/2/68
21-1/2
23-3/4
+10.4
07
*30.
FfR
11/25/68
12/2/68
35-1/2
38-7/8
+09.5
07
31.
CHI
11/26/68
12/10/68
65-1/2
71-3/8
+09.0
14
32.
NWA
11/26/68
11/29/68
90
90-1/4
+00.3
03
33.
sew
11/26/68
11/27/68
16-1/2
17-1/2
+06.0
01
34.
ox
12/3/68
12/5/68
14-1/4
15-7/8
+11.4
02
**35.
CLI
12/5/68
12/10/68
32-1/2
35-7/8
+10.4
05
’Represents transactionsin which actual funds were invested.
Ave. %
=+11.1%
Ave. Days
= 9.7 D
Ave. %/Day = 1.14%/D
Ave. % Costs = 2.2%
**Note: Multiple predictions per issue brought the total number of completed transactions to 42.
FIGURE VIII—9
CONCLUSIONS
This trading experiment was conducted at a tempo which precluded exhaustive
analysis. Only the absolute minimum of graphical work could be accomplished on the
40 to 60 issues of each weekly “stable” of stocks. It is undoubtedly true that such a

--- PAGE 133 of 215 ---

140
Trading by Logic Instead of by Guess
paucity of analytical effort would not have been sufficient to handle a wide variety of
market conditions. Nevertheless, the results were significant in several respects:
•It was demonstrated that transaction intervals of the order of ten days could
be achieved with enough action signals generated to assure 100% time investment of
funds.
•It was shown that the theoretical maximum of about 2400%per year yield on invested
funds could be produced.
•It was found that the expectation of 90% decision accuracy could be achieved.
•It was learned that the average individual will dobest by concentrating on a thorough
analysis of a few issues. The analysis time requirements to handle a large number of
issues is prohibitive unless a staff of personnel is utilized.
•The high expectation of decision accuracy eliminates the need for wide diversification.
It is probably best to limit commitments to a maximum of two to four issues at any
given time.
•It was shown that the theory is valid, and the methods work. Allyou need to do is to
master the techniques—and avoid the psychological barriers inherent in extracting the
magic from stock transaction timing!

--- PAGE 134 of 215 ---

chapter
nine
Why Stock Prices Change
• How Decision-Making Enters the Picture
• Understanding Irrational Decision Processes
• What You Should Know About Fundamental Factors
• How Company-Related Fundamentals Affect Prices
• The Influence of Broad Environmental Factors
• Should You Seii in Event of War?
• What About Currency Devaluations?
• How National Crises Should Affect Your Decisions
• How the GNP Affects the Market
• Now Compare Cyclicality vs. History!
• The Impact of the Fall of France
• Here is How Long-Range Cyclicality Affects the Market
• Summarizing Price Change Causes
Up to this point the objective has been to put into your hands as rapidly as
possible the essentials of a price-motion model, some methods of putting it to
practical use in transaction timing, and an integrated approach to investing based upon
it.
It is time now to fill in some gaps; to provide you with increased confidence in
and understanding of why the techniques work. Such understanding is not needed
when all goes smoothly, but can stand you in good stead if your emotions get out of
hand or things don’t occur quite as expected.
141

--- PAGE 135 of 215 ---

142
Why Stock Prices Change
HOW DECISION-MAKING ENTERS THE PICTURE
You must now force yourself to abandon many traditionalinvestment concepts,
replacing them with new ones. This is not easy to do, and a reasonable rationale for
doing so is an aid.
For example, you must revise your concepts of risk.
Traditional investment procedures based upon research of fundamentals result in
long-term trades with little possibility of capitalizing on the huge yield rates possible
through short-term transactions and profit compounding. Price oscillations in this
approach are evils to be survived, and the only way in whichrisk can be reduced to an
acceptable level is to select good stocks, be thorough in your fundamentals research,
have faith in business, and train yourself to be very patient. Short-term trading catches
you upin the oscillatory action and presents inordinate risk in this type of investing.
However, you have now been exposed to a radical thought: namely, that these
oscillations have a personality of their own, with characteristics which permit a certain
degree of prediction—and hence the risk of short-interval transactions is drastically
reduced! Many deeply ingrained investment traditions are thereby rendered not only
invalid, but are put in the new position of themselves representing untenable risk.
To make the necessary attitude transition deep down, you must be able to accept
the credibility of the phenomena described by the model. To aid you in this
reorientation we need to go back to the basic tenets of the price-motion model and
establish a creditability base.
How PricesFluctuate

--- PAGE 136 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
143
Figure IX-1 is a block diagram of the anatomy of price change. Into the box
labeled “Conversion Mechanism” we willput all processes between an investor decision
to buy or to sell and the consummation of the resulting trade. Stock price changes are
considered as an “output” of this box, such change being associated with each
transaction. Theprocesses within the box we will now proceed to ignore, since they are
the direct but not the elemental cause of price fluctuations. It is the decision to act
that starts the whole process off.
But what causes a human being to come to a decision? Logic? Emotion? The
press of circumstances?
All of these and much, much more.It should be clearly understood at this point
that the actual processes by which decisions are made are not understood—but the
more that is learned on this subject, the more complex the process appears. Our
particular needis to simplify the process in our own thinking to such an extent that we
can logically accept the strange new facts on which we now intend to operate, evenif
we cannot fully understand what causes them to exist.
InFigureIX-1 such simplification is effected by lumping all possible contributors
to the investment decision process under three headings:
].
Fundamental Factors
We know for a fact that people do buy and sell on the basis of research and
knowledge of these quantities. Therefore we must assume that such factors do
influence investment decisions(hence price change) to some extent.
2.
Random Factors
We also know that investors sometimes buy and sell stocks for no better reason
than to place excess funds or to raise cash. Such independent and nomprice-level-
correlated activity is most likely to create some level of random “noise” in price
action.
“X” Motivation
Now we simplify still more. For here we lump all other possible contributions,
known or unknown, to the investment decision process—of any kind whatsoever.
Now we have an interesting handle on the situation. Consider:
1. You have seen examples in previous chapters of regular periodicity in price motion.
2. The nature and existence of such regularities can be described in detail. Techniques
can besetup which can only work if such regularities exist—and can be shown to work.
3. The nature and existence of such regularities can be proven conclusively by analysis
through some of the methods andresults of Chapter Eleven and the Appendix.
4. But—and this is important—by definition, random price action (hence decision
factors) cannot contribute to such regularity. Furthermore, to accept fundamental
factors as the cause would force acceptance of the occurrence of fundamental events
on a regular schedule, like a freight train, and we can readily show that this is not the
case.
5. The conclusion is unavoidable that the cyclic regularities noted must be due to the
lumped sum of all other possible contributors to human decision processes—or to what
we have called “X” motivation!

--- PAGE 137 of 215 ---

144
Wy Stock Prices Change
And this is the concept that is difficult to accept. To do so, we must admit the
possibility that something causes millions of investors operating from widely differing
locations, making countless buy and sell decisions, at varyingpointsin time, to behave
more or less alike—and to do so consistently and persistently! How can this be?
The answer to this question is not known, although reasonable theories can be
formulated. The best that can be done here is to show that many things do influence
decisions—often without conscious awareness of the fact-and that the unknowns in
the decision process can conceivably account for the startling behaviour of price
fluctuations.
UNDERSTANDINGIRRATIONAL DECISION PROCESSES
First of all let’s consider a hypothetical situation which has probably been
experienced by every investor in one form or another.
Assume you have bought a stock on a fundamental tip. You are showing apaper
profit and trying to make a decision as to whether you should sell or not. Let’s say the
fundamental factor is still in effect and the principal reason you are considering selling
is the profit you would show if you did. What other factors might enter into your
thinking at this time?
Perhaps you have been unsuccessful in your last several transactions and need the
“ego boost” of a success. Your wife may be getting impatient, and you could fear a
curtailment of your investment activities in favor of, say, redecorating the houseif you
don’t show black in your ledger soon. You’ve seen paper profits dwindle to real dollar
and cents loss before and you don’t want it to happen again. Perhaps the automobile
just broke down and you need the money anyway.
In making your decision, how can you possibly weigh and evaluate all of these
considerations so as to arrive at a logical and rational decision? Obviously you cannot.
So the resulting decision must be irrationalin a sense!
Now let’s add a purely emotional factor. Assume you’ve been giving the problem
consideration, but have not made up your mind. One morning you awaken with a
headache, the hot water is off, and you’ve got a flat tire. By the time you get to the
office you’re in a testy frame of mind. About mid-morning you suddenly pick up the
phone and tell your broker to sell. What finalized your decision for you? It could be
that with everything going awry that day you simply wanted at least one situation to
be resolved favorably-in this case by a profit on your transaction. Suddenly your
whole day seems brighter and you congratulate yourself on a good decision.
But supposing the next day the stock skyrocketsin a short squeeze. You find you
could have doubled your profits by waiting an additional two days.Now how do you
feel regarding the validity of your decision?
This is a surprisingly good example of the way in whichmany decisions are made
in the absence of sufficient facts on which to base a logical conclusion. Remove the
facetiousness, rearrange the factors and circumstances a bit, and you could easily be
describing many management decisions made by corporate executives. In fact, the

--- PAGE 138 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
145
ability to make good decisions in the absence of sufficient information is what
distinguishes the successful executive (or investor) from the unsuccessful one!
So decisions are often based on other than a straightforward line of reasoning.
Let’s complicate the matter still more.
Recent experimental evidence tends to show that such intangibles as fatigue and
frame of mind are influenced by the presence or absence of physical force fields. For
example, Dr. Cristjo Cristofv (father of the “Cristofv Effect” used to detect nuclear
explosions) reports that pilots of U-2’s and truck drivers show increased alertness and
job efficiency when the Earth’s magnetic field,modified by the metal of the vehicle,is
artificially restored. Now all of us exist in an environment that is simply riddled with
force fields—gravitational, electrostatic, etc. If such fields can influence some physical
and mental functions, might they not influence o/Aers-perhaps causing masses of
humans to feel simultaneously bullish or bearish in the market, for example?
Conjecture, but a possibility.
It is not being suggested here that the cyclic sub-model is based on this type of
thing. It is enough to show that the possibility exists of external and unknown
influence on investment decisions. Seeing how it might come about helps us to accept
the evidence of our eyes and analyses, even when the results seem irrational by past
experience.
WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT FUNDAMENTAL FACTORS
The discussions of the previous sections should help you to accept and apply the
non-traditional concepts presentedin earlier chapters with increased confidence.
In like vein, let’s go back to several statements in Chapter Two which are a part of
the price-motion model, but were presented without substantiation. One of these was:
national and world historical events contribute in an utterly negligible way to the
performance of the market as a whole, and that of individualissues inparticular.
That this is a foreign and alien concept is amply illustrated by every financial
column and commentary you read and hear. The market is constantly being cited as
weak or strong depending on the progress of Vietnam peace talks or ten dozen other
such factors.
Fortunately, it’s not too hard to check on just how much such things influence
the market. We’ve plenty of recorded market price history on which to draw, and the
Almanac supplies corresponding dates of such events. Let’s look into this one, because
if you think such things do influence the market you cannot help letting it influence
your decisions. And if they do not, you are quite likely to make wrong decisions with
attendant loss.
It was also stated without amplification that company-oriented fundamental
factors contribute heavily to the broad, smooth sweep of price motion. Let us
investigate all of these areas simultaneously.
There are certainly at least three broad classifications involved.
1. Factorsrelated solely orprimarily to a given company and its operations. New products,
new management policies, and key personnel changes serve as examples.

--- PAGE 139 of 215 ---

J46
Why Stock Prices Change
2. Factors not intimately related to any individual company, but which are a decisive
element of the specialized environment in which the company must operate. The
effect of tight-money situations on a savings and loan company would be an example
here.
3. Factors not necessarily related to a specific company, nor even to its specialized
environment. A general monetary crisis or the eruption of armed conflict somewhere
in the world would exemplify this type of environmental factor.
The question is whether or not any of these contribute to cyclicality.
It is difficult enough to conceive of the complex interaction of these three types
of factors as being capable of inducing a cyclic response in the decision-making process
with regard to any single stock,but when we consider what we learned in Chapter Two
about the synchronization in time of the cyclicality of many issues,it becomes simply
impossible. Certainly the factors which most closely affect one issue, but should not
affect another in the same wayif at all,cannot be held responsible for the fact that both
issues demonstrate time-coordinated cyclicality!
But there is another part to the question. We have already admitted that random
events do occur and must have some influence on stock prices. We have seen that the
impact of this type of event must be approximately
2.0% of the total stock
price. We have also seen another possible source of additional random effects in the
irregularity of the variations in fluctuation magnitude with time.
Likewise we admit to the existence of fundamental factors, and feel instinctively
that there must be some impact of these on the decision-makingprocess, and hence on
stock prices. Can we gain some sort of feeling for the magnitude and nature of this
impact?
HOW COMPANY-RELATED FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICES
Of the three types of fundamental factors discussed, the first two may be
considered together for our purposes. The effects are likely to be quite similar except
that a factor relating to only one company will exert most of itsinfluence on the price
of that company’s stock whereas eventsinfluencing a group (steels, oils, etc.) will show
effects more or less across the group.
This situation requires very little consideration andno specific examples. We have
all observed a stock in which selling suddenly soars. If trading becomes sufficiently
panicky, trading in the stock may be suspended for a time. The stock may re-open
(hours, days, or even weeks later) at half the price at the time trading was halted. In
the interim, the news regarding the specific fundamental factor involved has probably
become common knowledge. The stock price changed not because of the fundamental
factor itself, but because of the effect of that factor on the thinking and decision
processes of investors. Nevertheless, the correlation of stock price change, through the
decision process, to the fundamental factor is obvious and undeniable. The same type
of thing takes place on the upside, notably in recent years upon the advent of a
conglomerate takeover type of tender offer. These are certainly examples of the more
obvious impact of fundamental factors. It is highly likely that many less obvious

--- PAGE 140 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
J47
effects are incurred as well. In fact, given the knowledge that random effects are small
and that cyclicality is synchronized, all other observed differences betweenindividual
stock price motions must be considered as being caused by fundamental factors!—or
at least by what investors think the effects of these factors should be. That the result in
terms of magnitude of influence is quite large is at once evident when we study the
price patterns of stocks in any of the wide-coverage stock chart services now available.
But is this all we can learn of the influence of fundamental factors? It would
certainly seem that the above reasoning, while straightforward and valid, is difficult if
not impossible to quantify. So let’s try another approach!
THE INFLUENCE OF BROAD ENVIRONMENTALFACTORS
Every day we are told in innumerable ways about this or that world or national
situation which, it is implied, is the principal cause of the current behavior of the
market. True, any analyst worth his salt will admit to the simultaneous existence of
many such factors—some purported to have bullish influence while otherspresumably
favor the bears. It is, supposedly, the on-balance sum of all these push-pull forces
which shapes the course of market action. In order to better examine the influence of
such factors, Figure IX-2 was prepared. Let’s see if we can detect the influence in the
market of the major historical events shown!
SHOULD YOU SELLIN THEEVENT OF WAR?
First of all, note the shaded areas emphasizing the behavior of the market
throughout periods of armed conflict. Can we honestly say that if these shaded areas
and the dates at the bottom of the chart were removed, we could detect any abnormal
behavior of the market that would permit us to identify the war periods? Not really.
During the Korean War a 52-month cycle topped out and ended, just as similar cycles
have been behaving since 1897. It was complete down to the three (nominally)
18-month cycles we have come to expect. The same action has occurred since the start
of the Vietnam War. A 52-month cycle was about half-way along at this time, and it
just continued and terminated as expected in 52 months’ time,whereupon another
promptly started! And yet, if the news were suddenly flashed on the broad-tape
tomorrow that the U.S. was involved in still another war, wouldn’t you be concerned
about the impact on the price of the stocks you hold? But,should you be concerned?
WHAT ABOUT CURRENCY DEVALUATIONS?
Remember the panic about the foreign currency devaluations of 1949? Did this
situation change the course of the market? Both an 18-month and a 52-month cycle
were four months along at this time, and each continued to completion in blissful
ignorance of the currency troubles! But, you say, when the British pound was devalued
in late 1967 the market took a tumble. So it did. But you notice that it was falling
before the devaluation took place. Furthermore, the drop was predictable—as much as

--- PAGE 141 of 215 ---

/48
Why Stock PricesChange
HISTOF
I0O0
900
800
700-
eoo
500
400
300
200
H
«
1 5
3
6 °
!
h
!
!| s
1 I
I s
I
llllll
I
JIV I'll
1 ».* Il u
H
t)
I1/
.ll1H
1’
18 MO.”-p»1*».-4 t6MO.-
r
17MO.
61 MO.-^I6MO7
1940i 1950
1951
1962
»53
1954
1955
I960
1967
W VS MARKET
I I _
d
M h
I I Hi
§p
?
g |it
m
•t?6
i
SftU )U«MHa*WBE8
—
Kq/
1
’
_0
9
. k.h
7*^
l»|l||p
Hl'1"
1111 "||H
IT
j
I
’
•Hi*'1
*17 MO.*4 -17M0r-l6MO.-— 17MOr-|
>MMC
M0.-4*-20 MCr*
RGUfIEK-2
52 MC
3Z MU.
1968
1959
»60
1981
»82
»63
1984
»85
1988
1987
»88
HowHistory DoesNot Influence TheMarket!

--- PAGE 142 of 215 ---

Miy Stock Prices Change
149
one and a half years in advance! The pound devaluation simply took place during the
termination phase of a (nominally) 18-month cycle that has been going up and down
with the regularity of clockwork for nearly a century.
HOWNATIONAL CRISIS SHOULD AFFECT YOUR DECISIONS
How about when President Eisenhower was stricken by a heart attack while in
office? Could you spot this occurrencein the history of the marketif all markings were
removed from Figure IX-2? The market dropped, yes. But if you expand thisperiod of
time, you will find that the drop perfectly coincided with the end of the first of three
18- to 20-week cycles in the second of three 18-month cyclesof the 52-month cycle
that beganinlate 1963’
The U.S. and Cuba had a big falling out in late 1960. What did the market do
about it?It wastime to start an 18-month(in this case 20-month) cycle, so it did. In fact,
the market disdained even to show the courtesy of a mildreaction to this momentous
turn of events!
Can anyone ever forget the 15 minutes of panic selling thathit the market on the
news of President Kennedy’s assassination? There is certainly no doubt whatsoever as
to the relationship of that frenzied few moments of price action to the tragic news that
inspired it. The powers that be even closed down the exchange. Yet, in retrospect, it
cannot be denied that the slight drop in the market at this time signaled the expected
end of the first 18-month (17-month in this case) cycle of the 52-month cycle which
started in 1962. Here was a case where a popular president was cut down violently and
unexpectedly in office and the presidency of the U.S. was assumed by a new
administrative head, yet the market barreled uninterruptedly upward until the pullback
in 1965 which terminated the second 18-month cycle of the 52!
Try to relate the significance of the Suez Canal crisis, the Sputnik launching, the
attack on U.S. destroyers in Tonkin Gulf, the political demise ofPremier Khrushchev,
etc., to market activity. The unavoidable conclusion that must be reached is major
world and nationalhistorical events have negligible impact on stock prices!
HOW THE GNP AFFECTS THEMARKET
Yet, we notice one thing more from this figure. Prices moved from about 160 in
1949 to over 1000 in 1966, but the sum total of all the cyclicality of the price-motion
model accounts only for price motion within the envelope surrounding the 52-month
highs and lows (as demonstrated in Figure 11-10). Our observed cyclicality does not
account for the price motion represented by a center line drawn between the bounds
of this envelope. If random events, cyclicality, and major world affairs do not account
for this panoramic price change—what does?
Take a look at Figure IX-3. Overlaid upon our now familiar plot of the DJ 30
Industrials from 1949 through 1968 is a plot of the Gross National Product of the U.S.
in billions of dollars. Now it is an interesting coincidence that the scales of the DJ 30
and the GNP in billions of dollars match almost perfectly. The scale on the left
therefore represents both the value of the average and the value of the GNP expressed

--- PAGE 143 of 215 ---

[OCR] Why Stock Prices Change

4.889,, AND PUL 20 .YOPYD, MOG YL SMI aUeD YORUM,

7961] 9961 | SBei | ya | coe! | coot| 1961 | COSI] 6SeI | e56i | Z96i | S9ei | S96)

{
| i

waned i

| LINdOd TWNOLLYN SSOUD-

it |
t u |
WH wt Thi 1 005

u a. 1.1009

’ ' ! ! wii sTvieusnoNt o€ ra i i
TLL ned an i al cl
1 pa

_ 08

150

I aun

--- PAGE 144 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
151
in billions of dollars. The correlationis striking. There is even an indication in the GNP
of the ups and downs of the 52-month cycle! We must be cautious to the extent of
remembering that the observed correlation does not necessarily imply a cause and
effect relationship. In fact, it may well be saying that both the DJ 30 and the GNP
simply react to the same causes. Or the relationship may even be purely coincidental.
However, here is a “fundamental” factor which undeniably does correlate to market
action over the time period shown, and at the same time seems to account for the part
of price motion not accounted for by cyclicality.It certainly stretches the imagination
less to impute a relationship here thanin the case of historical events!
NOW COMPARE CYCLICALITY VS. HISTORY
Consider Figure IX-4. This may well be one of the most informative chartsin this
book. It’s certainly a well belabored one, requiring more than three million separate
computations to produce.
The weekly closing prices of the DJ 30 Industrials are used this time—from 1935
through 1951. Again, themajor world andnational events that we’re told make market
history are accurately overlaid. Now, without peeking at the dateline or captions, can
you pick out the period of time in which World War II was in progress from market
action alone?
Taking events one at a time again:
1. No events of major significance couldbe found for 1935, ’36,and ’37. Yet the market
roared mightily during this period and subsided with a thumpin 1937 and early 1938.
What caused all this price motion—far more extensive than any that took place during
all ofWWII?
2. WWII started in 1939 and no immediate effects are seen at all. For nearly a year the
market drifted sidewise to slightly down.
3. The Pearl Harbor hammer blow hit in 1941 and the market plunged some. But it had
been going down for monthsbefore-at the same rate!
4. The German and Japanese surrenders show no impact at all. The market had been
rising sharply for three years, and neither acceleratednor decelerated its pace because
of these monumental events.
5. The fall of France in 1940 is closely associated in time with a fierce and very rapid
plunge in the market.Could this be an impact of a fundamental event?It is noted that
the market plunge took place before the event, but perhaps the market was simply
“discounting” the possibility in advance (a favorite phrase of the fundamentalist).
Well,Jet’s take a closer look.
THE IMPACT OF THE FALL OF FRANCE
Figure IX-4 also displays a series of six wavy, dotted lines. These are cyclicalities
that have been identified for this time period and were removed using the same
analytical techniques that were employed with Warner Co. in FigureII-l1.
Now let’s see if any of these look familiar. The periodicity marked “6” shows 92
samples over 884 weeks for an average of 9.6 weeks per cycle. When this form of
analysis is carried through to more recent years, it is found that this oscillation slowly

--- PAGE 145 of 215 ---

152
Why Stock Prices Change
MORE HISTORY VS MARKET
I
1835 1 1836 1 037 |t838T»39 |»40|»4l jl842T»43 ]»44]|845 1 »4« ? »47 1 1848 [ 1848 |BS0|M6iT
History,TheMarket, And Cyclicality

--- PAGE 146 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
153
reduces its duration to between six and seven weeks. This is the 1936-1951 counterpart
of the 6.5-week cycle of the model!
What about Number 5? There are 4414 samples present in 884 weeks. The average
durationis 19.85 weeks. Sound familiar?
Number 4. An average of 34.6 weeks is obtained from the 2554 samples present.
This is the 1935-1951 equivalent of the (nominal) nine-month component of the
model.
Number 3. The average duration of the 13 samples in 204 monthsis 15.7 months
or 67.98 weeks. Familiarity again!
Number 2. Here sample durations are as follows:
•
Sample 1
•
Sample 2
38 months
43 months
•
Sample 3
28 months
•
Sample 4
54 months
•
Sample 5
58 months (the total duration estimate for this one is based on the
one-half cycle present)
Now we note the same effect we’ve seenbefore, only this timein connection with
our 54-month cycle: short durations associated with low magnitudes—and magnitude
fluctuation with time? In fact, the shortest sample (28 months) is associated with the
1942, ’43, ’44 time period in which oscillation magnitude almost went to zero. So
there seems to be little doubt that Number 2 is the 1935-1951 equivalent of the
4.5-year component of the model.
Number 1. This one represents the sum of all possible oscillations longer in
duration than those we’ve been calling (nominally) 54 months. Notice the high points
in this curve at A and C, and the lows at B and D. These are highs and lows of the
nine-year periodic oscillation of our model!
Once more a comment on randomness: It is perfectly evident that none of the
smooth curves one through six are random in nature, yet the sum of these six
non-random curves adds up to the curve representing theDJ closing prices within ±1%!
If non-random motion makes up all except ± 1% of the totalprice motion, what
then isleft tobe random?
Now we’ve been unable to explain the price action of the average during this time
period by looking to historical events. Let’s see if we can do better looking at things
cyclically, starting with the one question mark we had left over—the fall of France.
Look on the chart just prior to this event and you will see three vertical lines with
arrows on the ends. These lines relate a specific part of the DJ price action to the cyclic
constituent status at the time in question. The earliest of these three lines shows the
following:
1. Component 1
2. Component 2
3. Component 3
is moving rapidly downward.
is going over a top and contributing nothing.
is hard down.

--- PAGE 147 of 215 ---

154
Why Stock Prices Change
4. Component 4
5. Component 5
6. Component 6
is going over a top and contributingnothing.
ishard up.
ishard up.
So what’s happening to the average as a result? Two components are going up,
two are going down, and two are sidewise—and (you guessed it!) the average is going
sidewise (with a tiny uptick due to component 6).
Now try the next line to the right:
1. Component 1
2. Component 2
3. Component 3
4. Component 4
5, Component 5
6. Component 6
is still down.
is still rideways.
is still down.
isjust starting down.
is now going over the top and contributing nothing.
is still hard up.
Two going down, one just starting down, and one going up. What’s the average
doing?It’s just starting down-gently.
Now look at the thirdline:
1. Component No. 1 is still down.
2. Component No. 2 is still sideways.
3. Component No. 3 is still down.
4. Component No. 4 is now hard down.
5. Component No. 5 isnow hard down.
6. Component No. 6 is just going over the top and becomes hard down right
through the precipitous drop preceding the fall of France!
Five down and one sideways—and the bottom dropped out! Now remember this:
each of these components had existed and had been oscillating regularly up and down
for years before the events leading to the fall of France even had their embryonic
beginnings! Was it then anticipation of the fall of France that caused the market to
drop?
HEREISHOW LONG-RANGE CYCLICALITY AFFECTS THEMARKET
If we cannot findhistorical events which relate to market activity,let’s go back to
the average and pick significant turning points and seeif they relate to cyclicality, and
how. We’ll take eight cases in this I7-year time span.
CaseI: The Major Market Rise StartingIn Early 1935.
Component 1
hard up
Component 2
bottoming and heading up
Component 3
bottoming and heading up
Component 4
bottoming and heading up
Component 5
bottomed and headingup
Component 6
bottomed and heading up
No wonder the market went up!

--- PAGE 148 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
CaseII:
TheMinor Market Drop Of Early 1937
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
flatteningacross the top
hard down
hardup
bottomingand headingup
topping out to head down
topping out to head down
One hard up, one bottoming to head up, one flattening across the top, two
topping to head down and one hard down. So, the market went down. Butit didn’t go
down very far, and then bounced right back up again. Why? Because by that time
Components 4, 5, and 6 were due to bottom out. They did so and the market
respondedby bottoming also.
CaseIII: TheBigDrop of 1937 And 1938
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
flat across the top
hard down
harddown
topping and heading down
toppingandheading down
toppingandheading down
There was simply nothing here cyclically to cause up action, and plenty to cause
down action—and the bottom really dropped out from under!
CaseIV: The Up Market Of 1938
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
hard down
bottoming andheadingup
hardup
hard down
hard up
hard down
Three down and three up. The ups won, because of the magnitude and longevity
of Components 2 and 3, but the rebound wasnot nearly as furious as for CaseIwhere
everything was up.
Case V:
TheMarket Rise Of 1942
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
up
up
down
up
up
topping and down
Four ups and two downs, so the market went up. And it continued to go up
because down Component 3 soon bottomed and lent up impetus, while down

--- PAGE 149 of 215 ---

156
Why Stock Prices Change
Component 6 was short-lived and small in amplitude and really only caused small
wiggles anyway.
Case VI: The Spurt Of 1945
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
hard up
hard up
bottoming andheadingup
hard up
bottomingand ready to head up
down, but due to bottom soon
With all this working for it, the surge was understandably huge. It was relatively
short-lived however, since up Component 2 was not too far from a top-out at the time.
Case VII: The Hard Down Market Of 1946
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
up
down
down
topping out to go down
up
down
With a preponderance of downs, the plunge was precipitous. Again short-lived
however, because Components 3 and 4 contributedheavily to the falland wereof short
enough duration that they soon turned, arresting the downside activity.
Case VIII:
The BigUp Market Of 1949
Component 1
Component 2
Component 3
Component 4
Component 5
Component 6
up
up
UP
bottoming to go up
up
bottoming to go up
Here we have nearly an identical situation to that of Case I, and the market
behavior is identical: i.e., the longest and steepest upward move since the one starting
in 1935!
So. Just as world events cannot explain market oscillations, it appears that
cyclicality can and does. And the importance of this remarkable fact is especially
apparent when we keep in mind the following:
1. Although our derivedresults apply strictly to the DJ 30 Industrial Stock Average, data
in the Appendix shows that many,if not all,individual issuesbehave similarly.
2. AU these periodicities persist in time. They have been regularly bottoming out, going
up, topping out, and going down again for years on end—completely independent of
all the things that we normally think make stock prices change.
3. Sufficient periodicity spells semi-predictability, which in turn spells transaction timing
aid!

--- PAGE 150 of 215 ---

Why Stock Prices Change
757
Figure IX-4 is one of the most useful chartsin the book, and is worthy of intense
study. Here is seen the regularity, persistence,deviation from regularity, and manner of
combination of most of the periodic oscillations that comprise stock price actions.
SUMMARIZING PRICE CHANGE CAUSES
• You don’t need tounderstand the causes ofprice changein detailinorder to profit by
the price-motion model—butit helps when the unexpected occurs.
•The traditional concepts of risk versus trading interval are out-dated by the existence
of the price-motion model.
•The determining element of price change is thehuman decision-makingprocess.
•Decision-making is complex and little understood. Emotions andunrelated influences
often play a large part. The unknowns in the process probably mask the true cause of
price motion cyclicality.
•Although the cause of cyclicality isunknown,the nature of the effect is certain.
• The implications of cyclicality include possible external influence of the decision
processes of masses of investors more or less simultaneously.If this is fact,you must
guard yourself carefully against the same influences.
•Cyclicality is probably not related to rational decision factors.
• The lack ofrelationship between cyclicality andhistorical eventsis clear-cut.
’'lore specific fundamental events cause wide differences in individual stock price
action, and must always be takeninto account.
• There may be a link between gross nationalproduct and non-cyclic price actionin the
market.
True panics due to wars, currency devaluations, etc., represent buying opportunitiesif
the cyclic picture is also ripe.
• The extent of non-random cyclicality precludes any major contribution to price action
by random events.
•Allprice fluctuationsabout smooth long-term trends in the market (as represented by
the DJIA) are due to manifestations ofcyclicality.

--- PAGE 151 of 215 ---

chapter
ten
Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them
•Why the Unexpected Occurs
•Recognizing Psychological Barriers
•Counteracting the "Outside Influence"
•Overcoming Greed
•Beat the "Persimmon Effect"
•The Bugaboo of "Time Distortion"—and What to Do About It
•Dealing With "Scale Effect"
•Combating Emotional Cyclicality
•In a Nutshell
Understanding provides control and control permits attainment. This is true in all
areas of human endeavor, and no less true asregards the market.
Before the Dow theory of price motion was formulated, little or no true control
was possible in investing. A few gifted individuals did indeed make fortunes in the
market, but it is to be suspected that they did so by intuitively acting on information
inherent inprice motion.
In more recent years chartists and other “technicians” have advanced the measure
of knowledge of price fluctuations still more, and an improved degree of control has
become possible as a result. It is the author’s conviction that recognition of cyclicality
inprice motion advances the cause a step further.
This is certainly not the end of the line. Other bits and pieces of knowledge will
fail into place as time goes on. This means that the predictive processes describedhere
are not perfect. This further means that operation with these concepts will not always
produce the desired results.
It is the purpose of this chapter to outline a few of the resulting pitfalls in the
hope that you may then more easily avoid them.
15»

--- PAGE 152 of 215 ---

Pitfallsand How to Avoid Them
159
WHY THE UNEXPECTED OCCURS
There are three principal causes of cyclic analysis going awry. The one which must
be most guarded against is the totally unpredictable fundamental factor which hits a
specific stock without warning. This differs completely from the long-term, smooth,
underlying fundamental push characterizing 75% of price motion. This is the factor
that either throws investors into a selling panic, or causes them to flood the issue with
buy ordersno matter how high the price is driven.
If this occurs in such a sense as to aid your transaction, you should shift
immediately to the use of terminal sell signal criteria.Ifit occurs in such a sense as not
to aid your transaction,let your trailinglosslevel signals be your guide.
These situations do not occur often. When they do, proceed as described and put
your funds to work in another issue.
The second cause of difficulty is the unpredictability of magnitude-duration
fluctuation of your trading cycle.
Go back now to Figure IX-4. A study of this variable in the cyclic components
shows that you can usually avoid trouble here by using sufficient past data in your
analysis. The variations are not sudden, and an increased span of past data can help
warn you whenmagnitude is due to dry up on a particular cycle.
A publication that is of considerable help in this regard is Standard and Poor’s
Trendlines, Current Market Perspectives. Although this service does not include allof
the issues in which you will be interested, it does include nearly 1000-on both
exchanges. These are weekly high-low charts covering about four years.
Never overlook the signs of occurrence. These are:
1, Failure to fill constant-width envelopes, and
2. The formation of triangles,cods, wedges,and diamonds,in the manner of the first one
described for Figure UI-9.
When this occurs due to components of shorter duration than your trading cycle,
it can be a great aid. But when it occurs due to the trading cycle itself, trouble is at
hand, and investment in the issue should be temporarily avoided.
Once again you will findit rather rare to be caught in these circumstances,butif
you are, your trailingloss levels will protect you against major loss.
The third source of difficulty is caused by overlooking the status of longer term
components. Sometimes these will be just emerging from a crossover point of
magnitude-duration fluctuation, and hence are not readily observable in past data. At
other times this occurs because of the use of an inadequate span of past price history in
your analysis.
To guard against this, always keep clearly in mind all of the components of the
price-motion model. When performing a cyclic analysis the status of as many of these
as practical must be taken into account If doubt exists, resort to the computational
methods of Chapter Six, or select another issue on which to trade.

--- PAGE 153 of 215 ---

160
Pitfallsand How to Avoid Them
RECOGNIZING PSYCHOLOGICALBARRIERS
Your techniques can be mastered to perfection and you can still get into trouble
with trading. The reasons are psychological in nature. There are several varieties of
these barriers and the most important single thingyou can do to overcome them is simply
recognize that they exist.
COUNTERACTING THE OUTSIDE INFLUENCE
This one is always present, but is of special significanceif you have been operating
in one way in the past and decide to convert to the methods described in this book.
Let’s see how it works by example:
You’ve been trading in the market for some time with mediocre results. You
haven’t really had any logical basis on which to make your decisions—no consistent and
unified trading method. You have relied heavily on advice from friends, your broker,
etc.
Now you are suddenly exposed to the price-motion model and the resulting
techniques of trading. You test it onpast stock price-action data.It works in the tests,
and you’re excited; you are eager to put it to the real test!
You conduct your scans, pull together a stable, and complete your analysis. You
are now waiting for an action signal, and have funds free for the transaction when the
time comes.
Before this comes about, however, the phone rings. Your broker is on the line. He
says XYZ company is the object of an acquisition move. The stock is now at 21 and
the prospects are for 32 when the tender offer is made public. He strongly recommends
a purchase.
You hesitate. You know your broker has your best interests at heart. His
suggestion is tempting. He’s been in the business for a long time and knows it inside
and out. You, however, are only a neophyte. You’ve just latched onto a method you
think will work, but it hasn’t really made you any profits yet. And the last time he
gave you a tip you made $1000 in three days. Your self-confidence drains and you
eagerly put your waiting funds into XYZ.
Now it doesn’t really matter whether you make or lose money on this particular
transaction. The point is you are still following your old method of trading on
information, which has proven that it provides mediocre results in the long run!
You have:
1. Madeup your mind to try something else,because of the evidence that the oldmethod
doesn’t work consistently.
2. Suddenly changed your mind, and reverted to the old method anyway, because of
outside influences.
Now, no real harm has resulted in this case since we’re only really talking about
whether you inaugurate a new system right now or some time later. However, let the
same thing occur after you have made the switch—and you’re in trouble.

--- PAGE 154 of 215 ---

Pitfallsand How to Avoid Them
161
You can only expect a system based on probabilities to develop the expected
degree of success if it isfollowed with utter consistency!
In fact, it requires remarkably little deviation from consistency to radically affect
the odds.
Let’s try another example.
You’ve set yourself mentally and financially to try the new method.(Maybe the
XYZ transaction didn’t turn out so well: merger news situations are sometimes tricky.)
You steel yourself and say: “From now onI will be influenced only by my own
analysis of the situation!’’
Suddenly, ABC stock trades one day in such a manner that it is apparent a new
two-week low has been established. But your extension lines on the non-real time
envelope tell you that this low should have been two points lower, if the past
downtrend was still intact. You compute andplot in the new low, use your channel
envelope measure, and sketch in the reversal—complete with the next expected
intra-channel high and low values. The downtrendisbroken! The analysisis confirmed
by all other aspects of your graphical constructs. The stock has signaled a 30% move
over the next week and ahalf!
You call your broker to place an order to buy.But the market hasbeen goingup
for the last two weeks. The DJ Industrials have risen 25 points in the last six days.
Your broker, anxious to avert a costly mistake on your part, says, “The market is
weakening. It’s timeit took a breather—after allit’s beenup 25 pointsin the last week.
The tick has just started to deteriorate.Iwould strongly advise that you delay all
purchasesuntil the market reacts alittle.”
You think: “That’s true. Is the method really that accurate?Ican’t be absolutely
sureIjust saw a cyclic low. Maybe that cycle was stretched alittle. Maybe a short-term
fundamental factor popped the stock up a bit.Isure don’t want to sit init at a loss for
the next two weeks.” Aloud you say “Maybe you’re right. Forget the order:I’ll wait a
while.”
However, your broker (and perhaps you) didnot realize that ABC has been going
down during the last six days the market has been up. Y ou are aware of the close time
synchronization between cyclic activities of individual issues and the overall market,
and are also aware that for short periods of time the shorter durationperiodicitiescan
get out of step. Nevertheless, you worry a little about the latter. As a matter of fact,
the last significant up-move in ABC started two weeks before the average turned, and
ABC soared 20% under cover of a down market! In short, the cyclic components of
ABC are just slightly out of time synchronization with the market as a whole at this
particular time. You’ve heard the Wall Street expression: “This is a market of stocks,
not a stock market.” You know this is true by virtue of three facts:
1. Price changesbetween stocks vary because of fundamental differences.
2. Price
changes
between stocks vary because of magnitude-duration fluctuation
differences.
3. Price changes between stocks vary because of small differences in cyclic time
synchronization.

--- PAGE 155 of 215 ---

162
Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them
You have just seen an example of the latter, doubted your own analysis, and
missed your 30% move in ABC! You were defeated by the psychological impact of
respected outside influences!
The outside influence doesn’t have to be your broker. It can be an earnings
statement you seein the newspaper.It can be an article on the company inBarron’s. It
can be anything whatever that creates doubt in your mind, and prevents you from
acting when the stock price behavior tells you what it is going to do next! All of this is
not saying that you are always going to be right while the next fellow is always
wrong—but if you are going to trade on fundamental information and tips, you must
do so consistently. If you are going to trade on cyclic analysis, you must do this
consistently also. Mix your methods, and the best features of each will not dominate
your results!
Now that this powerful agent of difficulty has been identified, the question is
what can you do to train yourself out of trouble?
It willhelp a great dealif you willkeep just one fact very firmly inmind:
When you tested the methods on paper, they worked—and you didn’t have any
outside influences deflecting your purpose then. In fact, you did not even need the
date nor the name of the stock in order to derive the needed conclusions from your
analysis.
You will find also that there is no substitute for analytical practice. You simply
cannot apply the methodsin this book too often onpaper. You must do this, checking
out every statement made, over and over again. Keep meticulous track of what the
results would have been had you been invested. Lean over backward not to cheat. In
this manner you can build sufficient confidence in the efficacy of the methods and in
yourself to assure a stiff spine when the barrier is approached.
It will help to consciously prepare your mind to give these methods the good old
“college try.” You must inform your friends that you are trying something new and
you do not want to hear any news about investments. Then, you must pre-make your
decision as to what way you will react, and what you will do if outside influences
sneak in anyway, as they will. You will probably still not be able to refrain from
succumbing at first If you do so, follow the transaction both ways—and keep a record
of the results! After you have a series of these results onrecord, go back and see how
all would have worked out if you had been able to master outside influences!
OVERCOMING GREED
It may sound trite to you, but you must be able to overcome greed. You now
have available a logical and complete basis on which to trade in the market. After
training yourself to overcome outside influences, the next most important psycholog¬
ical barrier you will meet is simple avarice.
Let’s say you have followed all the steps in this book in detail. You have selected
issues, pulled data, plotted, and analyzed. Right off the bat you notice several
situations which seem to fit all criteria—almost Not all factors are aligned in your
favor, but most of them are. For example, everything is right except for some
confusion on the status of the 13-week cycle. But everything else says buy. Besides, to

--- PAGE 156 of 215 ---

Pitfails and How to Avoid Them
163
locate better candidates would require another several days of work, and your
opportunity may be past by thenin the issue before you.
Don’t Trade on the Issue Where Confusion is Present!
Remember this: you can work diligently without tradingat all for three and a half
weeks, discarding prospect after prospect before you find a situation that leaves no
doubt in your mind. It is perfectly possible to trade on that one issue and capture a
10% gain in half a week. Recall the compounding example of Chapter One. Starting
with 510,000, making just one 10% trade per month, your capital compounds to over
$1,000,000 in somethinglike four years! On the other hand, trade on all the “almosts”
that come along and you’re sure to strike some losers. Each time you lose you will
diminish self-confidence.
The same thinking applies to sales. Ride your profits only as long as there is no
doubt as to what the techniques are telling you to do. If doubt occurs- take your
profit, and be content. You don’t need much per trade for the principle of profit
compounding to make yourich!
This barrier is particularly hard to contend with when you see situation after
situation where “almosts” go right ahead and do what you expected them to. The
temptation gets very great to jump on the next one, in spite of the fact that the daily
effort required to identify the ideal situation is far less strenuous and exacting than
your work-a-day job. The trait at fault is simply greed—and greed can defeat you just as
effectively in the market asif you attempt to *rade without system!
BEAT THE “PERSIMMON EFFECT”
As you practice graphical analysis you will note a common situation over and over
again: The ideal time to buy a stock is exactly when it looks the least interesting!
Similarly: The ideal time to sell a stock short is when it looks as though it will never
stop going up!
You will put a stock into your stable and patiently track it for a buy signal. The
price continues to drop and the amount of daily or weekly variation dries up along
with volume. Your cyclic analysis tells you to expect this, but it certainly looks as
though allinvestor interest has completely vanished.
At such a time it is very difficult indeed to convince yourself that you should
actually take action when that buy signal comes along.
Anyone who has experienced the varied taste treat of the persimmon can form
the appropriate analogy. Even knowing the situation with regard to this fruit,it is still
difficult to force yourself to select the nearly rotten looking ones which are sweet and
tasty. But the penalty for biting into the smooth, firm, and desirable looking fruit is
severe!
Quite often whenthe cyclic situation is ripe a full day’s trading all at one price and
on vanishing volume will signal in advance a buy signal the very next day!
You will have to consciously recognize and train yourself to avoid the persimmon
effect!

--- PAGE 157 of 215 ---

164
Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them
THE BUGABOO OF TIME DISTORTION—AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT
This element of the psychological problem is of particular importance in any
technical approach to the market. In a technical approach, decisions are made on the
basis of what a stock does. To remain aware of what it does requires charts. Charts
accomplish the purpose because they provide at-a-glance perception of what a stock is
doing over large periods of time. This very reason for the effectiveness of charts is the
heart of the time-distortion problem!
To see this, consider:
The relationships between stock price motion and time are presented in a chart in
vastly compressed time. Price motions that took months to occur are perceived in a
chart in seconds. The mind is free from considering time when a chart is studied. But
the mind is never free from time considerations when a stock isin motion,and you’re
in it! Time-price relationships which are easy to sense in looking at a chart refuse to
make themselves even noticeable as real time crawls along.
The effect is closely analogous to a motion picture film. Viewed frame by frame
all fluidity, grace, and even reality of motion cease to exist. Speeded up into an
acceptably compressed time scale, exotic dancers can delight as though real.
In the case of stock charts, the situation is just reversed. The chart presents
.information over past time on a compressed time scale like that of a movie film
running at normal speed. But reallife stock price changes are viewed as additions to the
chart at movie film frame-by-frame speed!
You will find that you can analyze a chart with perfect objectivity over all past
time. But start adding real-time data at frame-by-frame speed, and objectivity vanishes
just when you needit the most.
You can set up a powerful demonstration of this for yourself in this way:
Assemble a series of past Mansfield chart issues. Sort out all the white “Page
Ones” in chronological order. Clip off all parts of the page except the weekly chart of
the DJIndustrial Average. Staple theleft-hand edges together.
Now bend the package in the middle and fan the sheets before your eyes asif you
were shuffling a deck of cards. Concentrate your attention on the 18- to 20-week
cycle. If you fan at a reasonably constant speed, you will find that you will know,in
advance, what motion in the average is coming up. Your charts will come to life with
cyclic motion! Then, when you come to the last chart, the motion will subside—but
you willretain a strongimpression of what comes next!
What this accomplishes, of course, is to force each added data point on the chart
(insignificant in itself when presentedinreal time) to be perceived as part of the entire
fabric of price-time action. In this way,price-time rates may be qualitatively sensed, as
they cannot be with a static, add-on chart.
As always, the mere recognition of this problem gets you a long way toward a
solution. The use of positive, advance-decisions possible when using the objective
action signalsis also a definite aid.
You can also take specific steps to train yourself. Practice selection of an issue
from chart services of the past. Do the plotting and analysis work just as if you were
going to trade in the stock. After all analysisis complete, add one new datum (daily or

--- PAGE 158 of 215 ---

PitfallsandHow to Avoid Them
165
weekly high-low). Repeat analysis, paying particular heed to the impact of the
addition. Continue in this way, always striving to attach special significance to each
new bit of evidence. You will gradually gain a sense of relationship between chart time
and real time.
It is even more effective if you do this as real time goes along. Carry anumber of
fully analyzed issues along day by day and week by week before you start to trade. It
is truly difficult to over-emphasize the importance of this barrier to your success. All
time spent in this manner will reap large rewards as you swing your new abilitiesinto
actual practice!
DEAUNG WITH “SCALE EFFECT”
This is another highly significant factor when dealing with charts. The kernel of
the problem is that no chart is unique. The time-price pairs that constitute the data on
which the chart is based are unique. Once established, they appear in your Wall Street
Journal just exactly as they appear in “Friend Jack’s Journal,” 2000 miles away.
However, when you construct a chart of this data and Jack charts the same data
you will sometimes have difficulty believing that the two charts describe the same
stock. In fact the significance of time-price relationships in a stock can be suppressed
and/or lost if care is not used in the selection of scalefactors!
Now, the time scale factor that you choose is simply the space that you allot on
your chart to represent a particular unit of time (day, week, etc.). Similarly, the price
scale factor is the space you allot on your chart to represent a specific unit of price
(one-eighth, one-point, etc.). Thus, by choice of scale factor, a chart can minimize time
effects while emphasizing price motion, or vice versa.
If you fix your time scale factor, you can accomplish the same results by varying
the price scale factor. Or you may select both so that you must stand yards away in
order to see relationships without receiving a surrealistic effect. Through compression
of both scales, you can convey a sense of unimportance and insignificance for both
time and price motions-hence of the stock itself!
The problem is thus seen as one in which you must first know what it is you’re
looking for on a chart. Then you must choose scale factors which optimize the ease of
perceptivity of the desired information.
You will want to experiment on your own in this area, but a few guidelines can be
drawn:
1. Use daily charts for components with periods of one to 13 weeks.
2. Use weekly charts for components of 13 weeks to nine months in duration.
3. Use monthly charts for components of nine months and longer.
4. In general, arrange the scale factors so that the price motion over the time period
of interest forms a nearly square chart.
5. To suppress the effect of short components while emphasizing the longer ones,
plot the price motion in less space while retaining the same scale factor for time.
'
< o suppress the effect of long components while emphasizing the short ones,plot
the price motion in more space while retaining the same scale factor for time.

--- PAGE 159 of 215 ---

Pitfallsand Howto Avoid Them
166
7. If a pattern you’re analyzing (a triangle, for example) seems insignificant to you,
enlarge bothprice and time scale factors.
s. If your attention seems riveted on what youknow are insignificant phenomena,
reduce both price and time scale factors.
Chart services present a different version of the same problem. In such charts, the
space available is fixed, as is the time span covered. This means that the time scale
factor never varies from chart to chart andissue to issue.
At the same time, the price motion of all stocks charted by the service must be
displayedin a fixed amount of chart space for the total time covered.
Thus, a highly volatile issue will have a compressed price scale (with all that this
implies), and a sluggish issue will have an expanded price scale (with undue emphasis
on short duration fluctuations). Use is made of this fact in Chapter Seven, where the
scale factor of the Mansfield chart is actually measured as an indication of volatility.
All of this means that the same types of cyclic phenomena occurring in two
different stocks charted in this manner require a shift in your thinking in order to
effect the required same interpretation. Either this, or one or the other of the two
chartsmust be replotted.
For the methods described in this book, replotting for analysis purposes is
required anyway. This is the time to consider the impact of scale factor. However, in
order to make effective use of chart services in scan and selection, you must practice
negating the effect of scale factor change from chart to chart.
COMBATINGEMOTIONAL CYCLICALITY
This may or may not be a real psychological barrier. Nevertheless, assumption
that it exists at least helps to overcome the persimmon effect, and hence does no harm.
Ifit does exist, experience in overcomingit is essential.
Return in thought to the price-motionmodel.It has been emphasized that human
decisions are what set in motion the chain of events that result in price change. But a
decision is an effect which demands a cause. A human decision is caused by something.
If the decision is a logical one, the decision is based on deductions which are reasoned
from facts. If a decision is made in the partial or total absence of sufficient facts on
which to base a logical conclusion, then we may say that emotion or feeling has been
the determining factor.
Now couple the above line of reasoning with the fact that something causes
masses of investors to make buy and sell decisions which result in a fair chunk of price
motion being cyclic in nature. Furthermore, they do this pretty muchinunison. Add
to this the surety that individual investors never have all the facts needed on which to
base logical buy and sell decisions—and often have very few. It becomes a fair
assumption then, that many buy and sell decisions are characterized more by emotion
than by logic. The obvious implication of all this is that the emotional attitudes or
feelings of masses of investors vary in a cyclic manner, and that cyclicality in stock
prices is nothing more than a reflection of this.

--- PAGE 160 of 215 ---

Pitfallsand How to Avoid Them
167
However, regardless of whether or not this is a valid explanation of why,it is
certainly a fact that people in general do not get more and more in the mood to buy
stocks as prices go down. Conversely, the mood to sell does not strike harder and
harder as pricesrise. Yet the exact opposite of this mood is absolutely mandatoryif we
are to “buy low and sell high,” and this is precisely what we must do in order toprofit
in the market.
Therefore, if we condition ourselves to behave as though something is cyclically
causing our emotional outlook to vary (whichin turn causesus to be bearish or bullish
at the wrong times), and if we consciously try to combat the assumed forces, we will
find ourselves doing all theright things: i.e., beingin a frame ofmind tosell into rising
markets and buy into falling markets. This alone cannot guarantee us profits, but
combined with a workable timing theory it can work wonders.
In actual practice it is very hard to force yourself to adopt such contrary frames
of mind. Invariably the temptation exists to buy stocks ebulliently just as soon as you
sell one at a profit, even though (or perhaps because) the fact is clearly evident that
prices have moved strongly upward for some period of time.
The price-motion model and resulting techniques provide excellent objective
evidence of market (and individual stock) turning points, but it is indeed difficult to
accept and act on the results unless you’ve trained your emotions to the reverse of the
natural bent.
IN A NUTSHELL
•Nothing is perfect-there are pitfalls.
•Cyclic analysis can be wrong due to transient fundamental factors, magnitude-duration
fluctuation,and overlookedlong-term components.
•Trailinglosslevels will protect you in most cases.
•The most important antidote for psychological barriers is awareness of their existence
and importance.
•Outside influences,however well meant, can upset the statistical balance of things for
you.
•Greed is a problem. Use knowledge of the effectiveness of profit compounding to
counteract it.
•A stock seldom appears interesting at the ideal time to buy.It usually looks too good
to be true whenit’s time to sell.
•There is apsychologicaleffect attributable to chart time vs. real time.
• When using charts, scale factors are important.
* You must train yourself emotionally to sell into rising markets and buy into falling
ones.

--- PAGE 161 of 215 ---

chapter
eleven
Spectral Analysis — How to Do It and What It Means
•Why Numerical Analysis
•The Meaning of a Frequency Spectrum
•How to Do Fourier Analysis
•Assembling Your Data
•Separating Your Data Into Two Sequences
•Determine the Frequencies in Your Analysis
•Now Compute the Corresponding Amplitudes
•How to Get Composite Amplitudes
•The Kind of Results You Can Expect
•How Numerical Filters Can Help You
•What You Must Know About Filter Operations
•The Part of "Weights" in Numerical Filters
•How to Design Your Own Numerical Filters
•Applying Your Numerical Filter to Stock Prices
•Take Advantage of Curve Fitting
•Fit Your Data With a Straight Line
•How to Use Other Kinds of Curve Fitting
•Summarizing Numerical Analysis
This chapter is provided for those individuals of curious mind who would like to
investigate the fascinating intricacies of market cyclicality on their own, but who have
little or no background in the required methods of numerical and spectral analysis.
J68

--- PAGE 162 of 215 ---

Spectral Anafysis-How to DoIt and WhatIt Means
169
It is intended as an introduction to the subject which, when augmented by study
of the appropriate references in the bibliography, can launch you on your own sea of
investigation.
WHY NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
A stock history is a record of a phenomenon;namely, theprice changesin a stock
as a function of time. Other events of the world also establish such time histories: take
the matter of the temperature at a specific location in downtown Los Angeles as an
example. This temperature is a quantity which changes continuously as time passes. A
pen and ink recorder associated with a suitable thermometer will record a continuous
wavy line as temperature changes, minute or large, occur. Such a history is referred to
as a continuous “function of time.”
A stock price history is a little different. The nature of the events which cause
price change is such that the result is not continuous. It is only when a specific
transaction takes place that a price change is noted, with the result that stock histories
consist of a sequence of price numbers instead of a continuously changing price. Even
assuming that stock price changes are a mirror of some unknown continuous variable,
such as investor emotional attitudes, does not change the fact that the price changes
themselves are only available to us as samples in the form of separate and distinct
numbers.
The techniques of numerical analysis were formulated to handle just such
problems as ours. What we wish to do is to extract as much information as possible
from a time series of discrete numbers. This is precisely what numerical analysis makes
it possible to do.
THE MEANING OF A FREQUENCY SPECTRUM
The quantities heretofore referred to as fluctuations, regularities, or periodicities
are more precisely called sine waves. A frequency spectrum is a map of the existence
and nature of such sine waves. The durations previously referred to are a characteristic
of sine waves called the period. The magnitude (or size) of these is measured from
positive peak to negative valley and is known as theamplitude.
In Figure III-6, two such sine waves are depicted, one of which is slightly displaced
from the other in time. This characteristic is spoken of as the phase-relationship of two
sine waves. The analogous time relationship of a specific sine wave to an arbitrary (but
fixed) reference point in time is similarly noted as the phase time of that particular sine
wave.
Thus a sine wave is completely and uniquely described mathematically (or
numerically) in terms of the associated period, amplitude, and phase.
Another descriptive quantity can be derived from the period, and is somewhat
more useful in numerical analysis. This is the frequency of the sine wave. It is simply
computed, once the period is known, by taking the reciprocal of period. In symbols:

--- PAGE 163 of 215 ---

170
Spectral Analysis—How to Do It and What It Means
3
T
where/ = frequency in cycles per unit time;
and
T =period in the same units of time.
The relationship between these two quantities is most easily seen by means of an
example.
Given: a sine wave with a period of six months or a half-year. The corresponding
frequency is: /=^
= 2 cycles per year-or, leaving time in units of months: /=1=1
/2
O
O
cycle per month.
There is another form of the frequency quantity which is still more meaningful in
some applications. This is called angular frequency. It comes about because the
amplitude of a sine wave can berelated to the angular measure of a circle, 360 degrees
(or 2tt radians) of a circle corresponding to one period of a sine wave. It is simply
derived as follows:
w =2irf= —
where:
cj =angular frequency in radians per unit time
/ = frequency incycles per unit time
T = periodin units of time
jt = constant = 3.14159...
Now, just how does all of thisrelate to the market?
It is a true fact that any given time history of any event (including the price
history of a stock) can always be considered as reproducible to any desired degree of
accuracy by the process of algebraically summing a particular series of sine waves. This
is intuitively evident if you start with a number of sine waves of differing frequencies,
amplitudes, and phases, and then sum them up to get a new and more complex wave
form. In such a case you already know the nature of the sine wave content of the final
result. As you recall, several very simple examples of this process were shown in
Chapter Three, except that a sloping straight line was added in as well. But if the
straight line had not been included, the frequency spectrum of the resultant would
have been described by a plot similar to that of Figure A I-1, but with only one or two
frequency “lines” present.
In the references to Fourier Analysis in the bibliography you can find proof of
the fact that even the straight Une of the last paragraph can be accurately represented
by the sum of a series of properly chosen sine waves. If the spectral plot were
expanded to include these components as well, we would say that we then have a
complete spectral analysis of the wave forms generated as examplesinChapter Three.
In similar manner, the frequency, amplitude, and phase of a sine wave series
which adds up to any given wave form, no matter how complex, can always be found
to any desired degree of accuracy by using the techniques of Fourier Analysis (subject
to certain mathematical and conceptual restrictions which do not apply to market
data).

--- PAGE 164 of 215 ---

Spectral Anafysis-How to Do It and What It Means
171
The results of such an analysis are called the frequency spectrum of the wave
form, and the processis called spectral (sometimes harmonic) analysis.
It should be clearly understood that while nearly all wave forms have a frequency
spectrum, this doesnot necessarily imply that the wave form was initially generated by
a process which sums sine waves. In our case, the fact that stock price histories have
frequency spectrums does not guarantee that they were generated by a process which
starts out with sine waves and adds them up. However, methods are available whereby
such processes can be detected. In the case of stocks, the random and fundamentally
motivated parts of price motion are not generated in this manner, while the “X”
motivated portion of price motion is generated in this way. This is a vital consideration
since if this were not true, knowledge of spectral components would not necessarily
imply predictability. In any case, the starting point in looking for such useful results as
“X motivation” cyclicality is the process of spectral or harmonic analysis.
At this point we can state the following in support of the need for numerical
analysis in any comprehensive study of the market.
1. Stock price histories consist of sequences of numbers.
2. We need to be able to accomplish spectral analysis of price motion using these
numbers.
3. Spectral analysis may be accomplished in several ways but the one which permits
direct application to stock price numbers isnumerical analysis.
HOW TO DO FOURIER ANALYSIS
As you look into the references on this subject in the bibliography, you will find
that there are several varieties of the Fourier methods. The one chosen for presentation
here is described by Lanczos, in a simple and straightforward manner, and will suffice
as your introduction to the subject.
ASSEMBLING YOUR DATA
Your stock price data must be equi-spaced in time—that is, daily, weekly,
monthly, etc.
You must choose one value that you consider representative of the price over the
chosen increment of time. In the case of daily data this can be the closing price, the
mean between high and low for the day, or any other price you feel typifies the day.
Once you have chosen it, however, you should use the same criterion for each day’s
data. The price most often used is the closing one (for the day or for the week, etc.).
Choose an odd number of such price datums, in the proper time sequence, for
your analysis. The larger the number of such that you use the better your resulting
frequency spectrum will be resolved.
Have your data tabulated before you in chronological order.

--- PAGE 165 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How to DoIt and What It Means
172
SEPARATING YOUR DATA INTO TWO SEQUENCES
Note and mark in your tabulation the one data point in the exact center of the
series. You are going to form two new datasequences now, and this central number is
going to be the starting place.
To form the first new sequence, proceed as follows:
1. The first number in the sequence is just themiddle number of your stock price series.
2. Now add together the two numbers on either side of the mid-point number of your
original price series. This is the second number in the new sequence.
3. Next, add together the two numbers one removed from, and to either side of, the
mid-point number of your original price series. This is the third number in the new
sequence.
4. The fourth number is obtained by adding together the two numbers of the original
series that are two removed from the centralnumber.
5. Proceed in this manner until you get the last element of your new series by adding
together the first andlast prices in your original stock price series of numbers.
6. Now take the last number only in your new series, and change it by dividing by 2.0.
This operation completes the first new sequence you must make.
To form the second sequence, proceed as follows:
1. Do just the same as for sequence No. 1,except for the following:
• Enter zero as the first number of this sequence.
•Instead of adding the appropriate numbers to get new ones, subtract. Always
subtract the earliest number in your original series of stock prices from the
later number.
•Do not divide the final numberby two as you did before.Instead, change the
last number to zero.
2. Identify this whole new tabulation as sequenceNo. 2.
This completes your two new sequences of numbers. All further operations will
be conducted on these number series rather than on the original stock prices.
DETERMINING THE FREQUENCIES IN YOUR ANALYSIS
Remember what it is you are accomplishing in doing a Fourier analysis. You are
trying to determine the angular frequency, amplitude, and phase of a predetermined
number of “slices” through the frequency spectrum of the stock price history being
analyzed. The thing that determines how finely your analysis will “slice,” and
therefore how well you are able to separate any frequency peaks or valleys that may
exist, is the amount of data you assemble to analyze and thelength of the time period
involved. So the very next thing you must do is to determine the precise angular
frequencies associated with your particular analysis.

--- PAGE 166 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How toDoIt and What It Means
173
Let us assume that you have selected"m”price datapoints for analysis. Form the
®y^2
^en
’nto the constanL v - 3.14159...Call the resulting
quantity:
Z~ —
y
(m - l)/2
Now form a new page for data tabulation. Head the first column “w,”
representing the angular frequencies about which your analysis is going to provide you
withinformation. Calculate these frequencies as follows:
•The first one is zero (zero frequency represents infinitely long periods, or in other
words a value without oscillation).
•The second one is just the value of “Z” that you found earlier, divided by the digital
data spacing you have chosen.
•The third one is two times “Z,” dividedby digital data spacing.
•The fourth one is three times “Z,” dividedby digital data spacing.
•Continue calculating frequencies and tabulating them in this manner until the num-
m
1
ber you are multiplying “Z”by is the number,—~ ,that you computed earlier.
At this point you can see clearly just how many samples your analysis will provide
of the frequency spectrum of the stock you are analyzing. You may convert any of
these angular frequencies (“co”) to the corresponding sinusoidal period by the
relationship:
Ts¬
ar
A word here about units. If you have selected daily data to analyze, the angular
frequencies calculated above will be in units of radians per day.If your selection was of
weekly data, the frequency will be in units of radians per week, etc. It is a good idea
always to convert your computed frequencies to some common unit of measure to
avoid confusion. Radians per year is a good choice. Thus, frequency in radians per
week must be multiplied by 52 to get radians per year, and so forth. Similarly, when
you convert angular frequency in radians per year to period by using the relationship
T~~
th© period “T” will come out in years. If you had used frequency in radians
per week in this conversion, the period would have come out in weeks.
NOW COMPUTE THE CORRESPONDING AMPLITUDES
The reason for separating your original price series into twonew sequences was to
allow computation of the amplitudes of not only a sine-wave series, but an associated
cosine series as well. A cosine wave is shaped just like a sine wave but is 90 degrees out
of phase (one-fourth cycle) with the reference sine wave. The sum of two such wave
forms is simply another wave form with the same frequency, but with differing
amplitude and phase. We will now calculate the amplitudes of the Fourier sine and

--- PAGE 167 of 215 ---

174
Spectral Analysis-How to Do It and What It Means
cosine waves associated with each of the frequencies you’ve found that the analysis
considers-for the particular stock price sequence you’re using. Afterwards, you will be
shown how to combine these into a single spectrum.
We will start with sequence No. 1, which provides the amplitudes of the
cosinusoidal components.
First, find the amplitude of the cosinusoidal component associated with the first
angular frequency (co = 0) in your tabulation. To do this, add up all the numbers in
sequence No. 1, and divide by the number,g-~ l.that you found earlier. The result is
the amplitude you seek.
2
The amplitude of the cosinusoidal component associated with the second angular
frequency in your tabulationis found as follows:
1. Note the value of the first number in sequence No.1.
2. Now find the cosine of the number “Z” from a set of trigonometric tables. Multiply
this by the second number in sequence No.1.Add the result to Item 1above.
3. Now find the cosine of the number 2 X Z. Multiply this by the third number in
sequence No.1.Add the result to Item 2 above.
4. Find the cosine of the number 3 X Z.Multiply this by the fourth number in sequence
No. 1,and add the result to Item 3 above.
5. Proceedin this manner until you run out of numbersin sequence No. 1.
I
6. Divide the final result (sum of results of all intervening steps) by the number,——.
Enter this as the amplitude of the cosinusoidal component associated with the second
angular frequency in your list.
The amplitude of the third cosinusoidal component is found as follows:
1.Proceed exactly as for component No. 2—except before lookingup any of the required
cosines in the trigonometric tables, multiply the quantity obtained before by two,then
look up the cosine of the result.
For the fourth component, proceed as for the third, but multiply by three before
finding the cosine in the tables.
Proceed in this manner until you have found a corresponding cosinusoidal
amplitude for each angular frequency in your tabulation.
Now compute the amplitudes of the sinusoidal components associated with the
same frequencies. The process is similar to the one you have just completed with three
small differences:
1. You will use the numbers in sequence No. 2 now instead ofNo. 1.
2. Instead of looking up cosines in the tables, you will look up sines.
3. The amplitude of the first sinusoidal component is zero.
With these exceptions, proceed exactly as you did when finding the cosinusoidal
amplitudes.

--- PAGE 168 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How to Do It and What It Means
175
HOW TO GET COMPOSITE AMPLITUDES
Now go back to your frequency tabulation. For each frequency you now have an
associated amplitude for a cosinusoidal and a sinusoidal component. Form the square
root of the sum of the squares of these amplitudepairs for each frequency. Thisis the
composite amplitude of the oscillatory component of the frequency associated withit
in your table, which exists in the original stock price data.Plot the pairs of amplitudes
and frequencies as shown in Figure A 1-1. You may either plot amplitude vs. angular
frequency, or you can first convert angular frequency to period, plotting this against
amplitude. With this step your Fourier analysisis complete!
THE KIND OF RESULTS YOU CAN EXPECT
This kind of analysis has been completed using 2300 weekly close data points of
the DJ 30 Industrial Average. The results are plotted in the Appendix, and the
interpretation of them is given along with correlations to spectral analysis using other
methods.
You must always remember that such a Fourier analysis does not necessarily
imply that the resulting oscillatory components are in the original data because of
having been generated separately and summed to the total. For example, you may
draw a slopingline on a piece of paper, then tabulate the pairs of pointsmaking up this
line. A Fourier analysis of the resulting data will produce a set of oscillating
components which can be made to approximate the original line (when summed) as
closely as you desire. The analysis has found the spectrum of theline for you, but this
does not imply that the line was originally formed by adding up this series of
components. As a matter of fact, you formedit by simply drawing a ruled line!
A Fourier analysis is always a good starting point when you suspect hidden
periodicities, but other techniques must be used if you wish to learn more about
whether the originating process put all or part of the periodic components into the
spectrum to begin with.If they were not brought about in such a manner, the resulting
spectral analysis may tell you many things, but it will not permit prediction by
extrapolation of periodicities.
This is the really fascinatingpoint about which this whole book revolves: the fact
that about 23% of all price motion is not part of an artificial frequency spectrum, but
instead represents a basic, intrinsic process whereby that part of price motion is
formed. The case for this is further developed in the Appendix.
HOW NUMERICAL FILTERS CAN HELP YOU
The most familiar example of a filter is a sieve. Such a device allows particles
under a certain size to pass, while holding back those that are larger. A sieve thus
separates granular material into two parts. One of these contains particles smaller than
a certain size while the other contains particles larger than that size. The basic function
of a filter is to separate somethinginto parts according to some specified characteristic
of that which is being separated.

--- PAGE 169 of 215 ---

176
Spectral Analysis—How to DoIt and What It Means
A numerical frequency filter behaves the same way. It separates that part of
digital data which contains frequencies below a certain value from that part of the data
which contains frequencies above that same value.
When a filter just separates datainto two parts,it is known as a “cutoff’ filter. A
moving average is a crude filter of this type as shown in the Appendix. The moving
average process stops the passage of high frequencies (short periods), and permits the
passage of low frequencies(longperiods). Just as the size of the meshin a sieve sets the
separation point for granular material, so the span of a moving average sets the
frequency separation point
But a sieve divides particles into two parts, large and small. The moving average
seems to throw
away high frequencies, while saving the lows. Recall now the
“inverted” moving average of Chapter Six. This is the numerical filter equivalent of the
sieve process that allows retention of the small particles. The inverted average throws
away the low frequencies and retains the highs. By using both the normal and the
inverted moving average on data, the full function of the sieve is duplicated with regard
to the frequency characteristics of data instead of the size characteristics of physical
particles.
But filters can do even more than this. Suppose you used a sieve to separate sand
into two piles. Then suppose you screened the pile with the largest particles, using a
sieve with slightly larger holes. You would then have three piles of sand. One of them
contains all grains smaller than a certain size. The next contains allgrains between this
certain size and another larger one. The third contains allparticles larger than those in
the second pile.
These processes can also be duplicated by frequency filters. The filteringprocess
which produces results that lie between two fixed bounds is called a band-pass filter
operation, and is particularly useful in the analysis of stock price data. Such filters
were employed to produce the results of Figures 11-13 and IX-4 and a good part of the
results in the Appendix. Filters of this nature are an indispensable tool when you
undertake research of theprice motion of stocks.
The type of filter that passes low frequencies but not highs (ala a moving average)
is called a low-pass filter. Similarly, a filter that passes high frequencies but not lows is
called a high-pass filter. AH three types, low-pass, band-pass, and high-pass, belong in
your arsenalif you desire to research market data.
WHAT YOUMUST KNOW ABOUT FILTER OPERATION
We have already noted in the case of the low-pass filter operation known as a
moving average that there is a time lag to the output. This simply means that thelatest
data resulting from the filter operation never reflects up-to-date events. Put another
way, it means that current time filter output results depend on events which have not
yet occurred.
This is an example of a general characteristic of all numerical filters. To obtain
precise knowledge, using a filter, of the nature of the frequency content of data, you
must sacrifice knowledge of how that spectrum is affected by recent data. In fact, the
more precisely you construct a frequency filter to perform the function of separating

--- PAGE 170 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis—How to DoIt and WhatItMeans
177
frequencies, the more time lag you must tolerate. A moving average is a rather poor
instrument for frequency separation, and as a result it has a rather small time lag
associated with it. Much more effective filters can be constructed and used, but only at
the cost of increased lag.
Because of the minimal lag and reasonable frequency separation capability, the
moving average is an acceptable compromise for use in thekind ofreal time,predictive
analysis presented inprevious chapters.In such work, the lagmust be kept small, and a
moving average does as good a job for its lag as any filter can do.
On the other hand, lagis not nearly asimportant as effective frequency separation
when you are researching for helpful relationships in market data. Plenty of past
information is available, and tests of applicability of results to the real-time situation
can always come later.
To improve the frequency separation characteristics of a filter, you must increase
the span of time it covers. With such an increase, the lag automatically increases, since
it is, as for the moving average, half the span of the filter. Some of the filters described
in the Appendix have time lags of many years!
When using filters you should become familiar with the term “frequency
response.” This is a characteristic which completely identifies and describes the
effectiveness of a filter. Conceive of the numbers you derive via a filtering process as
the output of the filter. Similarly, picture the stock price data on which the filter
operates as tile input to the filter.If you then divide the numbers of the output by the
numbers of the input, the resulting quantity is called the “amplitude ratio.” If a sine
wave is present in the stock data of a given amplitude, and it is reproduced in the
output at the same amplitude, the amplitude ratio is one (for sine waves of that
particular frequency). In short, the filter has not changed the amplitude—or has
“passed”it intact.
Similarly, if a sine wave of a given amplitude is present in the data but is
completely non-existent (or of zero amplitude) in the filter output, the amplitude ratio
of the filter for that frequency is zero. Clearly, for the filter to perform its function of
frequency separation the amplitude ratio of the filter must vary from 0.0 to 1.0,
dependent on the frequency of the sine waves put intoit.
There is another characteristic of frequency response with which we will not be
overly concerned in this introduction, but of which you should be aware. This is called
“phase response.” Phase response is a measure of how much if any a filter operation
changes the phase-time of a sine wave on whichit operates. Thus,it is seen that a filter
can modify an input sine wave both as to its amplitude and with respect to addingit
backward or forward in time.
The two quantities, amplitude ratio and phase response, together make up the
frequency response of a filter. These quantities vary as the frequency elements of the
data input to the filter vary, and between them they completely describe the qualities
and capabilities of a filter.
THE PART OF “WEIGHTS”INNUMERICAL FILTERS
You have already learned how to design normal and inverted moving average
filters in previous chapters. There is a very large number of ways in which more

--- PAGE 171 of 215 ---

178
Spectral Analysis—How toDo it and WhatIt Means
effective numerical filters can be designed to make them do what you want. The
bibliography contains a broad sample of references to some of these. As an
introduction to the subject and to get you started, the design criteria of just one class
of these will be presentedhere. You willundoubtedly wish to follow up the references
to develop more capability in this highly interesting field.
All such filters have one aspect in common. They use what are called “weights” to
achieve the desired results.
Weights are simply numbers which are derived as a result of filter design. In
applying a numerical filter, you simply multiply each weight by the proper stock price
datum and sum up these products to obtain the filter output. Determination of the
number and precise value of these weights in order to achieve the needed filtering
results is the object of filter design work.
This is true even in the case of a moving average, although the usual process of
moving average applicationmasks this fact. Recall that to cause a moving average to do
what you want it to do, you set a cutoff frequency by selection of the span of the
average. Suppose the resulting average utilizes ‘W”data points. The process of forming
the latest possible moving average output consists of summing up the last ‘W” stock
prices, then dividing by “N." This is precisely equivalent to the more arduous task of
dividing each of the last “A” stock prices by “N” and summing up these fractions.
This, in turn, is the same as multiplying each of the last ‘W” stock prices by
and
summing results. From this it is seen that a moving average simply uses constant
weights. Each weight has a value of
If you plot these moving average weights in the chronological order of the stock
prices to which they are applied, the result is a square wave. In essence, all price data
prior to the N’th one before the last are multiplied by zero. All price data from the
AFth one to the last one are multiplied by
All future prices are likewise not involved
in the average, or are effectively multiplied by zero. The resulting square wave you’ve
plottedis the so-called “weighting function” of a moving average.
The four square corners of this weighting function cause many of the adverse
characteristics of a moving average (which are discussedin the Appendix). To improve
the characteristics, these must be rounded in a particular manner. The following design
criteria accomplish this, resulting in one specific class of numerical filters suitable for
research work.
HOW TO DESIGN YOUR OWN NUMERICALFILTERS
The design presented here is one of several developed and discussed by Joseph F.
A. Ormsby in a paper dated March, 1960 (see bibliography for details).
The techniques of this paper have been combined to form band-pass design
criteria in this example, since this will be of the most use to you. The reference will
provide you directly with the corresponding low- and high-pass filter designs.
There are several decisions that you must make before you can start a design.
First of all you must decide the time spacing you are going to use for your stock
price data. This will become a design parameter of your filter, and that particular filter
must always be applied against stock data of the same time spacing.

--- PAGE 172 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How to DoIt and What It Means
179
Secondly, you must decide how many filter weights you are going to use. The
number you select must be odd.
Finally, you must determine the steepness of skirt slope you desire your filter to
have. This means how rapidly the amplitude ratio of the filter rises from 0.0 (at the
lower-bound cutoff frequency) to a value of 1.0 (at the lower-bound rolloff
frequency). This ratio will then remain more or less constant over the passband of the
filter, until the upper-bound rolloff frequency is reached.It will then start to diminish,
becoming zero again at the upper-boundcutoff frequency. The meaning of these terms
will become clearer to you as you study the sample filter design of Figure XI-1.
All three of these quantities are involvedin determining filter error. Error in filter
design is unavoidable. This means that although we can approach ideal filter
characteristics
as closely
as desired (at the expense of increased computational
difficulty), we are never able to achieve the exact performance we want. Filter design is
a matter of forming the required compromise in such a way as to accomplish our
purposes to the best extent possible.
A Typical,Digital-Filter Response Curve
Precision filter error analysis is a very complex subject. To avoid getting into this
and yet provide you with workable tools, Figure XI-2 has been prepared. This figure
will bring you as close to being able to pre-determine your filter error as you will need
to be.
Notice that error is a function of the product of three factors;
1.
= frequency difference between cutoff and rolloff frequencies-or the measure of
filter skirt slope,in radians per year.
2.7L
= number of weights you use in your filter design.
3. t
= time spacing you choose to use between stock price data points in weeks.

--- PAGE 173 of 215 ---

180
Spectral Analysis-How to DoIt and WhatIt Means
How To Control “Error”
In A Digital Filter
These are the same three quantities discussed in previous paragraphs, now related
to filter error inpercent.
For stock research work you should shoot for an (TWrX^w)product of between
500 and 700. This will result in filter errors of about two and a half and one percent
respectively.
Keep this in mind as you make your choices: You will want at least six or seven
data points in the output of your filter for each cycle of the shortest duration
frequency component that can be in your filter output. This will put a basic limit on
how big you can make “t” Then, the larger you make 72. the more work you will have
to do both in designing and applying the filter, but the smaller you can make
(which makes your filter more effective). Similarly, to reduce the amount of work, you
may reduce 7Z but you will then have to make
larger, reducing filter efficiency. In
extreme cases you can even use filter errors of up to five or six percent—and you will
still be surprised at how effectively you can extract cyclicalities.
At this stage of filter design you have made the following choices:
1. wt
= the lowest frequency of the four: that frequency below which you wish
amplitude ratio to be zero, and for which you wish higher frequencies to
start being “passed” by the filter.
2. w2
= the next higher frequency of the four: that frequency at which you wish
amplitude ratio to first become equal to 1.
3.
= the next higher frequency of the four: that frequency at which you wish
amplitude ratio to still equal 1.0, but at which you desire higher frequencies
to start to be attenuated.
4. w,
= the highest of the four frequencies you must select: that frequency at which

--- PAGE 174 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How toDo It and WhatIt Means
181
you wish amplitude ratio to have again reached 0.0, and beyond which you
want all higher frequencies to be attenuated to zero.
5. t
= time spacing in weeks between the data points you are going to use repre¬
senting stock prices.
6. 71,
- number of weightsin your filter.
These quantities are Illustrated graphically in Figure XI-1. For this design the
number of filter weights is 199.
(the measure of skirt slope) is.4 radiansper year.
The data spacing to be used on stock prices, “t,” is seven weeks. Theproduct of these
is 557.2, resulting in an error of about two %. The low-end rolloff frequency is
while that for the high end is co3. The low-end cutoff frequency is coj, while that for
the high end is w4. The shaded areas show the error, or the amount by which actual
filter performance is different from the response we were trying to achieve by the
design.
These design choices provide 50% or more filter response across a pass-band of
frequencies corresponding to sinusoidal components with periods of 2.8 to 6.0 years.
Such a filter is suitable for investigation of oscillations of the order of four and a half
years’ duration-a dominant element of the price-motionmodel.
Note that Aco is simply (coj-co^or (<o4-w3). At this stage of your experience you
should make
equal for bothhigh andlow rolloff.
The next step is the computation of several quantities that willbe common to the
calculation of allHweights. Where necessary, these quantities will be assigned symbols
so that you can keep them straight.
1. First set:
• Calculate the quantity:
104ir
• Calculate the quantity: <on = ——
2. Second set:
• Calculate the quantity: X] =—
un
• Calculate the quantity: X3 =—=
• Calculate the quantity: X3 =—
n
• Calculate the quantity: X4
3. Third set:
• Calculate the quantity: X5 = Xi — X3
• Calculate the quantity: X6 = X4 — X3
4. Fourth set:
• Calculate the quantity: 2?rX1
• Calculate the quantity: 2trXj
• Calculate the quantity: 2n-Xj
• Calculate the quantity: 2^X4
• Calculate the quantity: 2ji2Xs
•Calculate the quantity: 2^X4

--- PAGE 175 of 215 ---

182
Spectral Analysis—How to Do Hand What It Means
The final step is the calculation of the weights themselves. Only one-half of these
and the unique central one must be computed, since the weighting function will be
symmetrical about the middle weight.
Compute the first weight as follows:
•Look up the cosine of 2aX3 in your trigonometric tables.
• Subtract from this the cosine of 2^X4.
•Divide the difference by 2?r2X<.
•Make a note of the resultingquantity, identifyingit as “A.”
•Now look up the cosine of 2n\2.
* Subtract from this the cosine of 2rrX j.
• Divide this difference by 2n2 X$.
• Make a note of the resulting quantity,identifyingit as “B.”
•Form the difference, A-B.
• Tabulate this as your first weight.
Compute the second weight exactly the same way as the first except for the fol¬
lowing differences:
• Multiply 2v\3, 211X4,2nX3,and 27^ by two before you look up the cosines.
•Multiply 2n2X6 and 2n2 Xs by 22 or 2 X 2 before you use them as divisors.
Compute the third weight exactly the same way as the first except for the follow¬
ing differences:
•Multiply 2irX3,211X4,2it\2,and 2nXi by three before youlook up the cosines.
•Multiply 2ir2 X« and 2rr2 Xs by 32 or 3 X 3 before you use them as divisors.
Continue in this manner until you are ready for the central weight. Computeit as
follows:
•Form the sum, X3 + X4.
• Subtract from this the sum, X] + X3.
• Theresult is the value of the unique central weight.
The next weight after the central weight is identical to the weight just before it.
The second weight after the central oneis identical to the second weight before it.
Continue tabulating the remaining weights until you have all22of them written
down. Now sum all of the weights you’ve tabulated and divide the result by22. Subtract
this quantity from each of the previously calculated weights to get new values for each.
The design of your filteris now complete.
APPLYING YOUR NUMERICAL FILTER TO STOCK PRICES
There is no shortcut to applying this type of filter to stock price data as in the
case of a moving average.'Each output data point must be obtained in the same way,

--- PAGE 176 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How to DoIt and WhatIt Means
183
namely by summing the products of each weight with the associated stock prices.
Proceed as follows:
Tabulate your stock prices in chronological order on a continuous, long strip of
paper. Be sure touse the data spacing for which you designed your filter.
Tabulate your filter weights (in the order in which they were derived) on another
long thin strip of paper.
Starting at the beginningof your price data,lay the filter weight strip alongside so
that the first filter weight is opposite the first price datum. Mark your filter strip at the
center. This mark will coincide with the price datum to which the first filter output
applies.
Now multiply each stock price by the associated (opposite) filter weight to get??,
sums. Add these all together. The result is the filter output associated with the central
price datum.
Now slide your filter strip one data space forward. The center of the strip picks
out the next price datum to which the filter output applies. Repeat the multiplications
and summingprocess to get the second filter output number.
Repeat the process until you run out of prices. You will note that you have no
filter output corresponding to the last
~ - stock price data. This is normal, and
represents the one-half span lagof the filter.“
Now you may plot both the stock prices and the filter outputs on a single chart in
order to see visually what the filter has done for you.
Figure IX-4 is an excellent example of what can be accomplished. In this case,
Items 1 through 6 on the chart are the outputs of six different band-pass filters, so
designed that their response curves overlapped. As noted in Chapter Nine, over three
million computations were required to design and apply the filters which produced this
chart. However, the insight gained by the effort into the nature of price motion fully
vindicated the work involved. Who knows what you may accomplish as you start to
design and use these interesting spectral analysis tools for yourself!
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF CURVEFITTING
Once you obtain results from spectral analysis, you must be able to derive
conclusions from themif they are to be useful. One of the most effective techniques to
help you here is the process known as curve fitting. You will find in the index
cross-references to the bibliography as well as to the text of this book that will enable
you to pursue the subject as far as you like. As in the case of filters, just enough will be
provided here to get you on your way.
Suppose you have designed and applied a numerical filter to stock price data.
After plotting the results, you tabulate and plot the resulting periods of the sine-wave
output. On your plot of this you notice that period (or frequency) as a function of
time oscillates back and forth between narrow bounds, but generally trends either up
or down. You would like to establish a straight-line “fit” of this frequency data in such
a way that the equation of the resulting straight line is known. Further, you would like
to use some logical criteria to do this based upon the data itself, rather than depend
upon sketching such a line in by hand. The technique you want is called fitting to the
data a least-square-error straight line.

--- PAGE 177 of 215 ---

184
Spectral Anafysis-How to DoIt and What It Means
FIT YOUR DATA WITH A STRAIGHT LINE
The equation of any straight line is of the form:
P= A+B(t)
“P" is the variable you would plot vertically on a graph, and “r” is the variable
you would plot horizontally.
“A” and “B” are constants for a given line.In fact, when known, these describe a
particular straight line as uniquely as the quantities period, amplitude, and phase
describe a particular sine wave.
Your present problem is to find values of “A” and “5” for a straight Une which
conies as close as possible to fitting all of the points on your frequency vs. time plot.
For consistency we can rewrite the line equation using the symbols assigned to
frequency and time earlier in the chapter:
co = A +B(t)
As rewritten, co is the angular frequency you are measuring. (Remember that you
canmeasure “period” from the filter output, then convert this to angular frequency.)
The quantity “t” now represents time from any arbitrary “time zero” (usually
taken at the start of your data).
To start, arrange your data in two vertical columns, one for the measured
frequencies, and the other for the times associated with them as measured from the
chosen time zero.It is a good idea right here to make your time units compatible: i.e.,
if you use radians per year to describe frequency, use fractions of years to describe
time, etc.
Now looking across the tabulation, the data appears in pairs an angular
frequency associated with a time in each case. Count the number of such pairs and
label theresult as “N.”
Youmust now do the following things with this data and jot down the results:
1. Add up all the “w’s” andlabel theresult “C.”
2. Add up all the “t’s” andlabel the result “D.”
3. Square all the “t’s” (multiply each one by itself), and add up these values. Label the
sum K
4. Multiply each “co” by the associated “t” and addup all the products. Label the result
“F.”
5. Square the sum ofall the “t’s” foundin Step 2.Label the result “G.”
You have now written down six numbers: N, the number of pairs of data points
you have, and the numbers labeled C, D,E,F, and G.
The next step is to compute the numerical values of the equation constants
desired, A andB. To do this, proceed as follows:
1. Multiply D by F and subtract the result from the product of C and E.
2. Multiply N and E together and subtract G from the product.Divide this result into the
result of Step 1.
3. The number you get is the value of the constant “A” that you seek.
4. Now,multiply C by D and subtract the result from the product of N and F.
5. Divide the result of Step 4 by the number youused as a divisor in Step 2.
6. The number you get is the value of the constant “B” that you seek.

--- PAGE 178 of 215 ---

Spectral Analysis-How to DoIt and What It Means
185
By replacing “A” and “B” in your basic equation with the corresponding values
you have just derived, you establish the equation of the best-fitting straight line to
your original data points.
Now you may select any two values of “t” that you wish, put them one at a time
into your equation and solve for the corresponding “w.” This gives you two points to
plot on the graph of the original data. Draw a straight line through them and see for
yourself how well your best-fit line describes your data!
HOW TO USE OTHER KINDS OF CURVEFITTING
You can find a way in the references to fit nearly any kind of curve you wish
through data. However, two additional kinds of fits will handle 99% of all your market
research work. Each of these requires somewhat more extensive arithmetic manipu¬
lation than that used for the straight-line fit, so the basic technique is located in the
Appendix. Here we will discuss the need and use of these methods.
You recall that stock price data spacingbecame a design parameter for numerical
filters. This means that you will probably find yourself faced from time to time with a
situationlike this:
• You have designed one filter using a given data spacing. The filter output then has this
spacingalso, say five weeks.
• You have designed another filter using a different data spacing. Let's say this one is
three weeks.
• You desire to compare directly (or sum, or difference,or otherwise operate with) the
outputs of the two filters. But the outputs will not compare directly because of the
difference in the spacing of points where the values of each are known.
You can solve this problem by use of curve fitting techniques. What youmust do
is to fit a section of a curve such as a parabola through each possible consecutive set of
three filter output data points. The resulting equations can then be solved to give you
“in-between” values for both filter outputs which are associated with common times,
and can therefore be directly compared. For the charts in this book, all filter results
have been interpolated in this manner down to a common interval of one week. The
technique for doing this you will findin the Appendix.
The third exceptionally useful data-fitting technique derives its utility from the
nature of the results you get in analyzing stock price data. This is the Prony method of
fitting curves to sine waves. The applicationis obvious in the analysis of filter results to
determine objectively the frequency, amplitude, and phase of resulting sine waves. This
technique is also described in the Appendix.
SUMMARIZING NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
You now have at hand, or know where to go to get, the basic tools you need to
research stock price data from the frequency spectrum standpoint. There are many

--- PAGE 179 of 215 ---

jg^
Spectral Analysis-How toDo It and What It Means
other powerful aids available to you through numerical analysis, and as you pursue the
references you wil! start to see their applicability to your own special problems. As you
dig furtherinto this field you should bearinmind the following:
•There are a number of ways in which you can analyze “spaced” or “sampled” data
(such as stock prices) that can get you into trouble regarding conclusions. Always
search the references for these stumblingblocks before applying a new method.
•Fourier analysis is a powerful tool for stock market research. However, the results
achieved should always be verified and expanded by other spectral analysis methods
before conclusive decisions are reached.
•Digitalor numerical filters-are a naturalnext step in the spectral analysis process.
• The disciplines of statistical analysisand the methods of curve fitting provide additional
tools with which to work.
•The tools of numerical analysis are widely applied at universities and research
institutes to help find solutions to a great variety of problems. They do not appear to
have been used with equal vigor in the analysis of stock price motions. Why don’t you
try them for yourself—perhaps it will make the “competitive edge” difference you’ve
beenlooking for in your stock market operations!

--- PAGE 180 of 215 ---

APPENDICES
appendix one
The Not-To-Be-Expected "Order” of
Spectral Relationships in Stock
Price Data
appendix two
Extension of "Average” Results to
Individual Issues
appendix three
The Source and Nature of Transaction
Interval Effects
appendix four
Frequency Response Characteristics of
a Centered Moving Average
appendix five
Parabolic Interpolation
appendix six
Trigonometric Curve Fitting
187

--- PAGE 181 of 215 ---

appendix
one
The Not-to-Be-Expected ’’Order” of Spectral
Relationships in Stock Price Data
•The Implications of Fourier Analysis of Stock Prices
•Coarse Frequency Structure
•Fine Frequency Structure
•Amplitude-Frequency Relationship
•The Use of Comb Filters
•The Variables Involved
•Best Estimate of Spectral Line Spacing
•The Line Spectral Model
In Chapter Two, a price-motion model was formulated that implied a surprising
degree of order in the frequency spectra of stock prices. The basic tenets of the model
were demonstrated primarily by observational methods, and were then shown to be
sound by use of a number of price-predictive techniques which could work only if the
theory behind them wasreasonably correct.
Then, in Chapter Three, it was noted that the otherwise incomprehensible
formation and repetition of specific chart patterns was fully explained by the assumed
model, lendingstill further credence to the theory upon which the modelis based.
In this Appendix, more powerful tools will be applied to the problem which
demonstrate not only the remarkable breadth and consistency of the phenomena
involved, but also bring tolight new aspects, understanding of which can help extricate
one from the occasional difficult situation.
THEIMPLICATIONS OF FOURIER ANALYSIS OF STOCK PRICES
A hint of the unusual spectral order involved can be obtained from a high
resolution harmonic analysis. Figure A 1-1 is a plot of the results of such a project.
188

--- PAGE 182 of 215 ---

[OCR] 189

Appendix One

FIGURE AI-1

[L

Lt

FOURIER ANALYSIS
DJIA

v

|

ie

44 Years Of Market Cyclicality

--- PAGE 183 of 215 ---

190
Appendix One
This analysis was conducted on the weekly closing values of the Dow Jones
Industrial Average over the time period 29 April 1921 through 25 June 1965. The
resulting 2229 data points provided a frequency resolutionof .568 radians per year.
Three major elements oi spectral order are to be noted from the plot:
1. The resolution of spectral amplitudes into several broad segments with minimums
approximately located at .95, 1.65, 2.8, 4.75,7.0, and 9.8 radians per year.
2. The regularity of the fine frequency structure between the above major separation
points.
3. The shape and smoothnessof theupper envelopeboundofthe broad segments as drawn
from peak to peak of each.
Let’s discuss the significance of these unusual symptoms in order.
COARSE FREQUENCY STRUCTURE
The coarse structure is seen to be divided into sections of increasing range of
frequency as frequency increases. One is immediately forced to ask why this bit of
order should exist in the spectra of a time series that is widely held to be randomly
generated. Of even greater interest is the fact that the frequency peaks central to these
large segments correspond to periodic price motion in the time domain that is readily
observable (as demonstrated in several of the examples of Chapter Two). The
sinusoidal periods associated with the central frequencies of these lobes is indicated(in
years) in the figure, and each of these can be visually noted in the various samples of
the DJIA presented in the chapters.
However, in the observational samples, fairly short periods of time are involved.
In this case, we see evidence that the observationally isolated periodicities have
persisted for at least 44 years. Any significant deviation from such a consistency would
otherwise have averaged out both the broad peaks noted and the associated valleys.
FINE FREQUENCY STRUCTURE
The regularity of the fine lobular structure between the coarse structure valleys is
very apparent. In fact, these peaks average close to .8 radians per year in separation.It
is significant that the broader lobes increase in width as frequency increases while the
fine structure maintains equal spacing regardless of frequency. Althoughnot shownin
the figure, this statement applies all the way up to frequencies that can be resolved
only by the use of trade-by-trade data.
The important observation that can be made is the fact that any degree of
regularity is present at all. We arrive at the tentative conclusion that we may be dealing
with a so-called “line” spectrum in the analysis of stock prices, and once again we are
forced to ask why this element of spectral order should exist, let alone persist over long
periods of time
as
we have
seen demonstrated. Such order implies possible
predictability in the time domain, and cannot be present if price fluctuations are
randomly generated.

--- PAGE 184 of 215 ---

Appendix One
191
AMPLITUDE-FREQUENCY RELATIONSHIPS
Fourier analysis results have one further surprise in store—the equation of the
dottedupper boundary connecting coarse structure peaks in Figure A 1-1 is:
k
ai= —
w,
Where “k” is a constant.
If we now assume thereality of a line spectrum, and ignore the possible existence
of modulating lines for the sake of simplification, each component of the coarse
structure is denoted as follows:
C; =af sin
+ <!>})
Differentiating:
Ct = a^i cos
+ <t>i)
And considering the previously noted relationship betweenat and cof:
Cf = k cos(w,-t + fa)
This relationship implies that the maximum time rate of change of each spectral
element in the coarse structure is identical to that of every other line in the
spectrum—and that this delicate balance is maintained over many calendar years by a
precise andparticular relationship between amplitude and frequency!
Once more we are forced to question why such an orderly and interesting
relationship should exist in the spectra of stock prices. And what about the implication
regarding the nature of human decision processes which are responsible for price
change and the resulting ordered spectral signature observed?
The above finding regarding equality of the maximum time rate of change of
prices due to each spectral component is quite usefulin applications, and is the basis of
the simple technique of noting how many components are up or down at a given time
in order to resolve chart patterns, etc. The very fact that this technique works
constitutes a test of the general hypothesis. A detailed study of FigureIX-4reveals just
how effectively this test is passed.
THEUSE OF COMB FILTERS
The results of Fourier analysis are useful,but quite generalinnature.Iri addition,
numerical analysis based on equi-spaced digital data can sometimes lead to erroneous
conclusions.
The results obtained can be validated and considerably extended through the use
of overlapping combs of digital filters.
A typical such comb of filters is shown in Figure A 1-2. In this particular case, the
response bands of the individual filters were arranged with identically equal frequency
spacings, and so constructed that each frequency was viewed by at least four separate
filters. In this way, if spectral energy is not separated into discrete lines (as implied by
the Fourier analysis), we should expect filter output more or less equally in all regions

--- PAGE 185 of 215 ---

192
Appendix One
I
4
J.
1
4
1
4
1
1
i
}.
Setting
Up
Overlapping
Band-Pas
Filters
ollvh aonindwv

--- PAGE 186 of 215 ---

Appendix One
193
1-5-214-40 ClONIB
EXA 01
MALEmVr
3-
AGU
29-41
AI
1
-3
+2
1
A -
Z^
7
/
—
1
1zl
-2 /
X^/
\
\
•*
J*
»
z »
1
1
+2
1
•A
/*
•
«
/
e
«
1
A
/ t
•’
1 -
FC-g O
-2
V
•
•
X
z
V
•
i
Z
1
1
1
1
♦2
-i
PC-3 0
-2
Jf\
•*
•
•
*
*
•
•
«
1
1
a—J
/
I
•i
•
M
•
J
-
't
»» *
I" '
rii
+2
*
i
**!*•
/
X
•*-
1
1
1
1
U
-2 J
//
•
•
•••
•
*
'
•»kd
1
1
1
1
*2
.A
z
iI
-H
O
-2 J
+2 '
•
z u
/
>
*
।।।
•
।
rC"C v
-2
J
+2
-
k
/
/
1
1
1
1
1
1
FC-7 0
-2 :
i .*
”1
1
1
•. ,
1.
FC-8 0 ?
r
""
"
1
•.
1
+2
FC-9 0
-2
-
+4
q
».e
/
Z
Z'-.
•*
*
,
/
1
\
1
% /
*
A
1
‘■-J
f
1
1
1
1
FC-HO 0
•
*
*
*
*
•
•
♦
*
-4
J
•z
V
’.z
1
1
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200 225
250 WKS.
Typical “Comb” Filter Results

--- PAGE 187 of 215 ---

194
Appendix One
of the frequency domain. Likewise, we can hope to leam whether such lines (if they
exist) tend to shift slowly with time or not. If sharp over short segments of time as
indicated by filter output, the blurring of such lines indicated by the Fourier analysis
would indicate slow drift with time.
Figure A 1-3 is typical of the output generated from such combs. Each sine curve
in time was frequency analyzed to permit study of frequency variations as a function
of time.
Results for the 23 filters of this example are shown in Figure A 1-4. Here, it is
noted that the output of filters 1,2, and 3 are clustered in a narrow frequency band,
then there is a “leap” in frequency to the output of filters 4, 5, 6, and 7. Outputs from
several filters in the comb (such as 8, 12, and 16), whose response curves straddled the
frequency gaps shown, fell completely outside the possible response pass-bands of the
respective filter and were discarded as meaningless. All other filters provided outputs
well within their response range.
It is seen that over the frequency range of 7.5 to 12 radians per year, filter
outputs clustered in frequency bands. If the bands of these clusters are shadedin and
The Incredible Frequency-SeparationEffect!

--- PAGE 188 of 215 ---

Appendix One
195
center lines are drawn an arbitrary .8 radians per year apart through them (the spacing
of the fine structure noted in the Fourier analysis), the results appear as in Figure A
1-5. Returning to Figure A I-1,it is seen how well these spectral “clumps” correspond
to the fine frequency structure of the last coarse-frequency structure lobe of the
Fourier analysis.
Furthermore, band definition is very sharp, lending credence to the suspicion that
a slow drift of discrete spectral lines takes place with time. This effect can be tracked
with special purpose filters and proven to exist.
Such comb filter analysis has been conducted over varying time periods for the
DJIA, a number of individual issues, and over the entire frequency range from
approximately .4 radians per year to the highest frequencies resolvable by daily
data—withunvaryingresults.
The rate of time variance is a negligible factor in applications, as was to be
suspected from the fact that the line character of the spectrum was not masked by a
Fourier analysis over a 44-year interval. It nevertheless exists and in some situations
can be profitably taken into account.
The “Line"Frequency Phenomena

--- PAGE 189 of 215 ---

196
Appendix One
THE VARIABLES INVOLVED
The potential conclusion, of course, is that the spectrum of at least the DJIA
consists of discrete frequency lines. (This conclusion is extended to a large segment of
individual issues in Appendix Two.) This in turn leads to potential for predictability in
the time domain, and to considerable amazement that the phenomena should exist at
all!
However, before drawing such a conclusion, test of the invariance of the spectral
signature is required over a large range of variables.
For example, in order to be sure that the noted effects are not a product of the
analytical method or of the process of sampling a possible continuous function, results
must be verified using random filter pass-bands in the combs, random variation of
equal digital data spacing, variations in the degree of filter overlap, and non-equal
digital data spacing. This was completed for the entire useful frequency range, and a
sample of the results is shown in Figure A 1-6.
Here, each filter output was frequency analyzed as a function of time. Additional
smoothing of the results was obtained by passing a least-square-error straight line
through the frequency versus time data. Each line on this figure represents such an
output from one filter-and these outputs are taken from filters designed to sample the
variables mentioned above.
The results show the same spectral grouping effects in the same frequency regions
as for the Fourier analysis and for the equi-spaced filters working on equal digital data
spacing. The conclusion reached is that the spectral signature effects noted are real and
not due to vagaries of method of analysis.
BEST ESTIMATE OF SPECTRAL LINE SPACING
If we now make the assertion that the hypothesis of a line spectrum is a valid one,
we may obtain a highly smoothed best estimate of the minimum spacingbetween such
lines by ranking the means of the least-square-error lines through frequency versus time
data in order of increasing frequency.
This is done in Figure A 1-7, where the resulting mean frequencies are plotted
against the index number “N.” The scatter along this curve is very small and the slope
of the least-square-error straight line through the data points is the desired line spacing
estimate. This does not mean, of course, that still more closely spaced lines do not
exist, beyond the resolution of the filters used. The implication is certainly strong,
however, not only that stock prices (or at least the fluctuations in the DJIA) exhibit a
line frequency spectrum, but also that the lines are equally spaced.
The minimum line spacing is seen to be .3676 radians per year—just about
one-half the spacing estimated from Fourier analysis. Going back to Figure A 1-1,
traces of such lines are seen to be visible between the peaks of the fine structure.
Presence is, of course, largely inhibited by the limiting resolution of the analysis of
approximately .5 radians per year.

--- PAGE 190 of 215 ---

Appendix One
197
LSE,
FREQUENCY
VS
TIME
ANALYSIS
Smoothing
Filtered
Outputs

--- PAGE 191 of 215 ---

[OCR] Appendix One

198

Sujsedg-our] JQ aeumsy 9g

~—N—>

ve 2 02 a 9

vl

ih

a9v.

|

’

YaAV “IVIE.LSNONI
WNe.LOadS JNIT ADNaNDAY

Lf

a

wv3A /SNVIOVE— "CO

--- PAGE 192 of 215 ---

Appendix One
199
THEUNE SPECTRALMODEL
We can now use the presumed minimum regular spacing of spectral lines to
establish a nominal spectral model of considerably more character than the one
described in Chapter Two. The assumption of regularly spaced lines (.3676 radians per
year separation) leads to the spectral groupings of Figure A 1-8.
The horizontal lines on the chart are taken directly from the low amplitude
dividing points of the coarse structure of the Fourier analysis. Results are completely
inline with expectations from graphical, observational, and filter analysis.
The coarse structure to be implied from this model takes the form of a central
group of spectral lines which behave like a “carrier” frequency in communications.
Each of these has sets of fine structure lines which behave as amplitude modulation
side bands. Some of the modulation side bands are also amplitude modulated (have
side bands of their own), resulting in frequency modulation of the composite coarse
structure wave form. As demonstrated repeatedly in the body of the book, this is
N
Wn
Tv
Tw
T. NOM.
1.
.3676
17.1
18.0 Y
2.
.7352
8.5
9.0 Y
1;
1,1028
1.4704
i:?
68.5
51.3
4.3 X
I:
7*
1.8380
2.20J6
2.5732
3.4
2.9
2.4
41.1
34.2
29.4
3.0 Y
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
2.9408
3.3084
3.6760
4,0436
4.4112
2.1
1.9
1.72
1.60
1.43
25.7
22.8
20.6
18.7
17.1
18.0 M
13.
14.
15.
16,
17.
18.
19.
4.7788
5.1464
5.5140
5.8816
6,2492
6,6168
6.9844
1.32
1.22
15.8
14.6
13.7
12.8
12.1
11.4
10.8
12.0 M
20,
21.
22.
25.
26.
7.3520
7.7196
8.0872
8,4548
8.8224
9.1900
9.5576
10.3
9.8
9.35
8.95
8.57
8.22
7.80
9.0 M
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
9.9252
10.2928
10.6604
11.0280
11.3956
11.7632
12,1308
12,4984
7.63
7.38
7.10
6.85
6.65
6.42
6.22
6.06
29.6
28.8
27.8
27.0
26.2
6.0 M
FIGURE A1-8
Low-Frequency Portion: Spectral Model

--- PAGE 193 of 215 ---

200
Appendix One
exactly the observed nature of the periodic fluctuation of price with time. Special
purpose filters can now be designed to isolate and study individual side bands. This has
been done and the results confirm the detailed nature of the spectral model as
described above. It is even possible to assemble a modulation model which links the
elementsof the spectralmodel in such a way as to explain the relationship af =~ noted
in the Fourier analysis! Yet once again the question is posed: whence comes all this
order in the spectral signature of a time series that is so widely believed to be random?
It is clearly impossible for such relationships to exist in the frequency domain without
counterpart order being present in the time domain.
The spectral model of Figure A 1-8 indicates a lower limit to the cyclic portion of
price motion in the vicinity of 18 years’ duration. This is not necessarily the case. This
limit is imposed simply because resolution of the analytical methods used to date show
.3676 radians per year to be a possible minimum spacing. Other cyclic components
may be crowded between .3676 radians per year and zero frequency, but their
existence is academic to the applications. This is true not only because fluctuations of
such long periods can be approximated over any reasonable transaction interval by a
linear function, but also because of the constant maximum time rate of change
relationship derived previously. This relationship essentially gives the vast number of
high frequency components (whose periods grow ever more closely packed together as
they decrease) dominance in the description of price fluctuations over the sparsely
spaced, longer period components. In effect, each modulated component of the model
has exactly the same maximum impact on price motion as that of any other, no matter
what the disparity in amplitude may be.
Regarding the high-frequency end of the spectral model, no limit has been found
to the order and precision of the spectral signature-right up to frequencies so high that
they can be resolved only by using trade-by-trade data.
While the above results would seem to be strictly true only for the DJIA,
extension of each finding to individual issues is possible. The results shown used
samplings from many specific issues as well as the Averages, and are substantiated by
some thousands of cases of graphical analysis and inferential testing. While it is
impractical to repeat such extensive analysis on all of the listed issues, a good feeling
for the commonality of the phenomenon is provided in Appendix Two.

--- PAGE 194 of 215 ---

appendix
two
Extension of "Average” Results to Individual Issues
•A Basis for the Principle of Commonality
•Spectral Signatures, Fundamentals, and Time Synchronization
A BASIS FOR THE PRINCIPLE OF COMMONALITY
The problem of demonstrating that the unusual and useful traits of the spectral
signature of the Dow Jones Industrial Average apply to individual issues as well seems
an overwhelming one. This would be most convincingly accomplishedif a repetition of
the studies summarized for the DJIA could be completed for every stock for which
there is sufficient recorded data. This, of course, is a problem common to all
generalizations. For example, Newton’s famous law concerning the force of attraction
between masses could scarcely be verified for every massin existence. The procedure in
such cases is to note effects from small samples, draw conclusions, extendthe rangeof
applicability to as large a sample as practicable, and then test the resulting hypothesis
or “model” by forcing it to produce predictions which can be verified by real world
action. In this situation, the DJIA constitutes the smaD sample, what follows is the
extension to a large sample, and the predictive results of previous chapters are a
samplingof real world tests of the hypothesis.
SPECTRAL SIGNATURES, FUNDAMENTALS, AND TIME SYNCHRONIZATION
Figure A II-l is a plot, on a logarithmic scale, of the weekly closing values of the
DJIA and the S&P “500” average from 1949 into 1961.
The S&P “500” has each weekly value modified by a constant scale factor so that
the total range of value over this time period matches that of the DJIA. This was done
to provide direct comparison of the timing of value fluctuations without regard for
relative volatility.
The implications are unmistakable. The long, sweeping undulations of each
average are, of course, the nominal 4.5-year modulated cycle of the spectral model.
This clearly exists in both.
201

--- PAGE 195 of 215 ---

202
Appendix Two
The
Law
Of
Commonality
;
Generalized

--- PAGE 196 of 215 ---

Appendix Two
203
As the eye follows each fluctuation of the DJIA, long or short, it is also found
that the same identical fluctuation appears in the more comprehensive average. Thisis
true down to the finest detail resolved by weekly data, and can be shown to be true
also for oscillations resolvable only by daily data.
From this really incredible chart, the following conclusions are inescapably
drawn:• The time series of the two averages are so nearly identical that only minor spectral
signature differences are possible between them.
• All results, conclusions, andimplications derived from the spectral studies of theDJIA
are now seen to apply (withbut minor variations possible) to at least one-fourth of all
the issues on both theNew York and the American Stock Exchanges.
• At any given moment of time, the earnings and earnings potentials for the various
issues of the S&P “500” are in all possible states. Some of the issues comprising this
broad average have extremely good fundamental situations, some have extremely bad
ones, and others exhibit all possible variationsinbetween.If these considerations truly
were the basis of price change, we would expect an average of some 500 resulting
prices to show no coherency and order at all. In fact, we would expect the resulting
price average to be quite smooth, withprice variations due to all different fundamental
situations averaged out. On the contrary, we now see that the average has a spectral
signature with all the precise order shown for the DJIA!
• The above reasoning does not negate completely the potential of fundamentals to
influence prices. Remember the scale factor difference that has been removed from the
data in Figure A II-1 before conclusions were drawn. However, the evidence is clear
that such factors do not have more than anegligible relationship to price fluctuations.
The impact,if any, has to be in the area of volatility or the long-term, smooth price
motion upon which the fluctuations of the spectral model ride. Given a lower
frequency limit of the fluctuationmodel corresponding to periods of 18 years (or even
of 9, or 4.5 years) it is seen that the remainingeffect of fundamental factors must be
quite smooth and slow changingindeed!
•Further, the same lines of reasoning apply to the DJIA. Again the earnings, earnings
potential, and all other fundamental factors vary widely between the 30 issues
involved at any given time, and certainly are not the same as for the constituents of
the S&P “500.” Again, not only do price changes supposedly due to these factors fail
to average out, but the spectral signature displays coherency-and goes beyond to
show
the same coherency
exhibited in the larger average! The conclusion is
unavoidable that those fundamental considerations that are widely held to be so very
effective in causing price change—and in fact are used as the basis for stock purchases
and sales by individuals and institutions alike—simply are not the principal reason for
the price motion that occurs!
•Finally, inspection of the timing of the turns of the fluctuations of the two averages
demonstrates vividly the incredible degree of time synchronization of the spectral
components involved in the fluctuations. Once again, if significant differences in
spectral component phasing existed between individual issues, the fluctuations in the
DJIA should at least be “smeared.” This thinking would be even more valid for the
average of 500 stocks, and the near-perfect identicality of fluctuations between the
two
averages would be simply impossible. This attribute of the principle of
commonality was demonstrated with a single issue (Standard Packaging) in Chapter
Two, and is dramatically extended by the implications of Figure A II-l.

--- PAGE 197 of 215 ---

appendix
three
The Source and Nature of Transaction Interval
Effects
•Theoretical Yield-Rate Maximums vs. Transaction Interval
•The Impact of Compounding
•The Effect of Sinusoidal Rate Summation
In Chapter One, it
was demonstrated on a single issue that, given perfect
transaction timing, yield rate is inversely proportional to transaction interval.
The effect demonstrated using a single stock can be quantified further. The same
procedure was applied to 300 stocks, selected at random from both the New York and
American Exchanges in equal numbers. Yield rate versus transaction interval was
determined for each and the results averaged. The results appear on the left inFigure
AIIM.
THEORETICAL YIELD-RATE MAXIMUMS VS. TRANSACTIONINTERVAL
The curve is inversely exponential with a significant “knee” between ten and 20
weeks. For transaction intervals of less than ten weeks the potential yield rate increases
very steeply.
The significance of this, of course, is that it is worth almost any resource
expenditure required to achieve significant shortening of average transaction intervals.
THE IMPACT OF COMPOUNDING
In the same figure, on the right, are plotted two samples of the yield rate versus
transaction interval directly from the compound interest law. It is obvious that the
curve on the left derives its principal shape from the compounding effect. The lower of
the two compound interest curves applies for average transaction profits of ten %each,
while the upper one is derived for average transaction profits of 20% each. The
204

--- PAGE 198 of 215 ---

Appendix Three
205
nouBE
Am-
t,4000
.
4
Why
The
Trading
Interval
Must
Be
Short

--- PAGE 199 of 215 ---

appendix
four
Frequency Response Characteristics of a Centered
Moving Average
•Response Derivation
•Response Characteristics
•Application implications
•Response of the Inverse Centered Moving Average
In order to apply moving averages effectively, the design parameters and response
characteristics to be expected must be known. These are simply derived as follows:
RESPONSE DERIVATION
1. Defininge. as a cosinusoidal input to the averaging operation:
= A cos (cut)
2. Determining eo = the output to be expected from the averaging operation (under the
assumption of centering,and takingto at the mid-spanpoint):
eo=—-^4
cos (cut)+ A cos [w (t+ tn)] + A cos [co(r — t„)l
+ A cos [w(r + 2tn)] + A cos [oXf —2rn)]
+ A cos [w(t +
P")] + A cos
Where: n = number of elements of the movingaverage,
207

--- PAGE 200 of 215 ---

208
Appendix Four
4. Factoring and combining terms:
'
eo =^A cos(o>r)^l + 2 cos(I)(wt„)+ 2 cos(2Xwf„)+"*+ 2cos(^y-^^or„
5. Defining:f= cos(lXwtrt) + cos(2X<or„) +••'+cos(y~— (utj
l+2f
e =
- •e.
°
n
'
6. And amplitude ratio is:
eo
1+If
,
a =-2=
where:
'
et
n
f= COSGX^Q + COs(2XwZ„) +■•••+ COS^—y"^(“fn)
RESPONSE CHARACTERISTICS
From the derivation we note the following:
•Output is precisely in phase with input over the entire frequency range: 0<w ≤00
(except for reversals of phase in the highattenuation areas).
•n
tn is
the
span of the filter (in units of time). The time lag is a constant:
L =
-
(units of time), or one-half of the span.
•The cutoff frequency occurs when/=
or at a frequency:
_ 2rr
” nt
This frequency corresponds to a cutoff periodof:
= ntn = span of the average
• The form of the amplitude response curve is a damped sinusoid, but the major pass¬
band Jobe repeats itself at frequency intervals of 2rr. This implies a first high frequency
window that can induce frequency-folding effects at;
w =—,or at a frequency whose period is: tn.
hi
• The amplitude ratio of the first error lobe following cutoff frequency is a constant
—.23, independent of design parameters. Subsequent error lobes alternate in sign as
they diminish in size. Thus, high frequencies appear in the output damped, and either
in phase with the input or 180 degrees out of phase with the input, dependent upon
design parameters and frequency.
* The characteristics of a centered moving average are totally fixed by the span of the
average, ntn which is the only design variable.
APPLICATIONIMPLICATIONS
The derived response curve for a centered moving average is plotted in Figure A
IV-1.

--- PAGE 201 of 215 ---

How A Moving Average Works
The simplicity of the function tells us that we need never plot it again for a
specific design. Knowing that amplitude ratio is 1.0 at zero frequency, 0.0 at a
frequency of —— (corresponding to a period of ntn), and that the following error lobe
is negative and reaches a peak of ar = —.23 is sufficient to allow the curve to be
visualized with sufficient accuracy for all practical purposes.
We note that selection of a span of ntn forces the output to contain no trace of
spectral components whose period equals this span. We further know that slightly
lower
frequencies will come through attenuated, the attenuation diminishing as
frequency decreases, reaching zero attenuation at zero frequency. Similarly, slightly
higher frequencies (than that of cutoff) come through attenuated and 180 degrees out
of phase. At a still higher frequency, output is again zero. At higher frequencies yet,
output is obtained that is still more attenuated and in phase with input again.
It is clear that the centered moving average behaves as a low-pass filter with
large-amplitude Gibbs-oscillation error lobes (due to the infinite discontinuities of the
derivatives of
the square-wave weighting function). Actually, the high-frequency
suppression characteristics are sufficiently poor that such an average would not be very
effective as a “smoother” of stock price data—except for the fact that the spectrum of
stock prices consistently displays the ai~~^ relationship between amplitude and
frequency derived in Appendix One. It is only the sharp attenuation of high-
frequencies characteristic of stock price motion that permits the utilization of a filter
with such relatively poor characteristics.
209

--- PAGE 202 of 215 ---

2 jq
Appendix Four
The combination of knowing the spectral behaviour of a given design of moving
average and knowing in advance the general nature of the signal against which it is to
be applied (per the price-motion model), generates a terrific advantage in the
applications. Moving averages can now be designed to clarify and allow inference of
spectral status of stock prices at any given time, thus providinginsight into the future
of the price time-series. This is the basis of the several applications of the chapters.
In using moving averages to help define the turning points of price-motion model
components,
one
is now
aware of the potential for high-frequency
“creep-
through”—either in phase or 180 degrees out of phase. Such knowledge permits
identification of these unwanted residuals, so that they do not mislead conclusions.
RESPONSE OF THE INVERSE CENTERED MOVING AVERAGE
The chapters have pointed up the utility of this version of centered moving
averages. Knowledge of the frequency response associated with them can be used to
sharpen your ability to interpret results obtained through their usage.
The phase response and lag characteristics of such an operation are similar to that
of the conventional moving average. The principal difference lies in the fact that no
phase inversion is experienced at frequencies output via error lobes. The output is,
therefore, perfectly in phase with input across the entire frequency spectrum, and time
lag remains precisely one-half the span of the filter.
Amplitude is simply derived by taking 1.0 minus that for the conventional moving
average, with the result shown in Figure A IV-2.
How An Inverse Moving Average Works

--- PAGE 203 of 215 ---

Appendix Four
211
From this figure it is noted that the inverse moving average behaves like a
high-pass filter-again with error lobes to 23%. The frequency for which amplitude
ratio first become 1.0 is
or the frequency corresponding to a period equal to
the span of the average, ntn. The actual maximum response point occurs at a frequency
somewhat higher. You will sometimes want to correct output for the nearly one-fourth
excess amplitude of the output at these frequencies in order to arrive at a true estimate
of the magnitude of a spectral model component.

--- PAGE 204 of 215 ---

appendix
five
Parabolic Interpolation
•Three-Point Interpolation
•Equation Derivation
As indicated in Chapter Eleven, digital data spacing of the time series of numbers
on which a numerical filter operates is a design parameter of the filter. As such,it must
be varied according to need, along with other factors, in order to achieve the desired
filter characteristics.
This is sometimes inconvenient, as when the outputs of two filters must be com¬
bined or compared numerically, but the output of one is spaced at five-week intervals,
while the other is spaced at three (for example).
In such cases, parabolic interpolation is useful. This process defines the equation
of a least-square-error parabola fitted through any specified number of filter output
data points. The equation is then solved for best-estimate intervening values that are a
common interval apart. The results of the two or more incompatible filter outputs may
then be compared directly, or operated upon together numerically.
The following material is intended for use with the output of band-pass filters
where the high frequency content is small. Interpolation of high-pass (or otherwise
non-smooth) data may require adaptation of the methods to use more data points, or
even the use of other forms of curve fitting.If the need arises, a representative sample
of the literature on such additional methods is to be found in the bibliography.
THREE-POINT INTERPOLATION
The process operates as follows:
Consider any three consecutive data points in the output of a filter spaced utn
time units apart. Assign t = 0 at the central point, and symbolize this point as^o- Cali
the one just preceding it in time SLt, and the one following it S+1. Form the least¬
square-error parabola fitted through 5-j,
, and S.^ . Solve the resulting equation from
t = 0 to t = tn to find the interpolated values of “s” at any required time intervals.
212

--- PAGE 205 of 215 ---

Appendix Five
213
Now move the whole process in time forward by one data point. Thus,50 in the
preceding computation becomes S-j in the new one;
in the preceding computation
becomes
in the new one; and the next later data point becomes the new 5*i. Re¬
define r = 0 at the new So and complete a new segment of interpolation. Proceed in
this manner until the data to be interpolated are exhausted.
EQUATION DERIVATION
The standard form of the equation of a parabola is:
S(t)= a9 +a1t +a2t*
where:
t = time
S(t) = function to be interpolated
,& a2 = constants to be determined for each set of three values ofS(t) between
which interpolation is desired.
The least-square-error equations for the values of a0,
,& a2 are:
Zs = aaN+ai'Et +a2Zt2
}
V= Number of data points to
ZCs =a^t + ajSr2 + a2St3 \
be fitted and the summations
St2 -s = a0Sr2 +a,Sr3 + a2 Sr4 \
to
carried out over 1116 time
2
interval corresponding to the
fitted data.
For our case, whereN- 3 and r = Ois chosen to correspond with So:
Sr = 0 and Sr3 = 0
So that the coefficient equations reduce to:
Ss = (3)a0 + (0)«! +(St2)fl2
Zt's = (0)ao + (Sr2)^ + (0)^2
St2 -s = (Sr2 >z0 + (0)8! + (Sr4)fl2
With a digital data spacing of “s” equal to tn , the summations are evaluated and
substituted as follows:
So + (5+1 + 5 J= (3)a0 + (0)8! +(2t2)a2
tn (<$+] + S-j) = (0)flo + (2tn 2)ai + (0)a2
+S-t)= {2t2y^ + (0)8. +(2t*)a2
Solving these three equations simultaneously for the values of a0, «i, and a2
yields:
_(SM -S-,)
2'.
_(5n +£,)- 2S0

--- PAGE 206 of 215 ---

214
Appendix Five
The desired equation of the least-square-error parabola fitted through any set of
So> and
is then:
S(t)= 50 +
—S-t
(S+1
- 2S0
Substitution of the values of S.,, Sc, S^, tn and any desired values of time:
0< t<t
provides the needed interpolation values of the function S(t) (output from a
specific filter).

--- PAGE 207 of 215 ---

appendix
six
Trigonometric Curve Fitting
•Generalized Least-Square-Error Methods
•Solving For Frequency
•Computing Amplitudes
•Determining Composite Amplitudes and Phases
Theuse ofnumerical filterson stock price data resultsin the generation of sampled
functions which contain a reduced number of spectral components. In manipulating
these functions it is often desirable to determine analytically the frequencies, ampli¬
tudes, and phases of the summed sinusoids present. This can be accomplished (and
high frequency smoothinggained atnocost in additional time lag) by the trigonometric
curve-fittingmethod described here.
GENERALIZED LEAST-SQUARE-ERROR METHODS
The technique to be described requires a generalized form of the least-square-error
curve fit method. This procedure will be demonstrated using the trigonometric
functions of interest to us; however, the process is quite general and can be used to fit
data with any kind of rational function.
Suppose we have utilized a band-pass filter to obtain a function of time contain¬
ing “m” of the components of our spectral model. The approximation equation of the
filter output is then:
(1)
+
sinW1O+
+ (Am cosumt + Bm sinter)
Let us say we have N> 2m filter output data points. We write the set of N
equations which postulate that equation (1) is true at each of the times corresponding
to the N filter outputs:
215

--- PAGE 208 of 215 ---

216
Appendix Six
(2)
(A j cosreqtt + Bi sin
11) + •••+ (Am cos
/] + Bm sincpm t, )- S(ti )
(A j cos co 1
+ Bs sin
t2 )+ •••+ (Am cos
t2 + Bm sin
t2 ) = 5(r2)
Mi coswj^ +Bt sincoj^H •” +Mm cosw^ + Bm sinwmtN)=S(tN)
To demonstrate the generalized process of least-square-error curve fitting, we will
assume that we know the o/s. (The method of computing them also uses such curve
fitting and is described in the next section.) We wish to solve equations (2) for the /Ts
and the B's in such a way that the resulting equation will best fit the data points
S(ij ),S(t2 ), etc.,in the least-square-error sense.
To do so, we must derive from the TV equations (2), 2m new equationsin the 2m
unknowns of interest (the A’s and B's). We proceed as follows:
Form a matrix from the coefficients of the A’s and.B’s in equations (2)—and the
right-hand equation members—as follows:
(3)
coscO]/}
sincO]/]
‘cosw^G
sinco^f,
Sf/j)
cosWi/j
sin CO] t2 " ••cosco^ t2
sincum/2
S(t2)
COSW]/^
sincoi^-'-cosw^/^
From this matrix we now form a second matrix by the following rules:
•Multiply the elements of each row of the first matrix by the element of that row
which lies in the first column. Sum the products by columns to get the elements of
the first row of the second matrix.
• Multiply the elements of each row of the first matrix by the element of that row
which lies in the second column. Sum the products by column to get the elements of
the second row of the second matrix.
• Continue in this manner until you have converted the entire first matrix. The new
matrix will consist of 2m + 1 columns and 2tn rows.
The second matrix is the set of coefficients and right-hand members of a new
group of equations in the unknown yl’s and B's, located in the same positions in the
members of these equations as in equations (2). Simultaneous solution of the new
equation set yields the desired A andB coefficients. Substituting these in equation (1)
completes the least-square-error data fitting process.
SOLVINGFOR FREQUENCY
From equation (i), it can be shown that the equation determining w is of the
form:
(4)
2 cos (mwj - 2as cos [(m - l)co) — •••- 2«m_J cos [w ] - a* = 0
Equation (4) must now be expressed in terms of Chebyshev polynomials and the
parameter “m" as follows:
(5)
Tm(cosw) - ai Tm-i (cosco) -
- am_1Tjcosw) -
=0
TheChebyshev polynomials to beusedin this expression (T
(cos co), Tm_x (cos w),
etc.) are as follows:

--- PAGE 209 of 215 ---

Appendix Six
(6)
T0(x)~ 1.0
Tj(x) = x
T2(x) = 2x2 -I
T3(x) = 4x3 - 3x
r4(x) = 8x4 - 8x2 + 1
Ts(x) = 16x5 — 2Qx3 + 5x
217
where: x = cos(w), in this case.
Next, the a’s in equation (5) are solved for by a technique known as Prony’s
method. Application of this method in this situation results in (N — 2m) equationsin
the unknown a’s, where the S’s are our filter output data points 5©,
•••S^.
We now set up these equations as follows:
(7)
(S] +S2m-1)®1+ ($2 +
+ ”*+(^m-l+
+Smam - Sq +S^
(S2 +
+ C$3+
+ •••+ (Sm + Sm^)Oim_^ + Sm+i(Xm — Sj+Sim+i
+(^N-2m* 1 +1$V-3)Ofe+"’ +(<$V-m-2 +*5v-m)°fn-l ’^‘Sv-m-l0^-
+*5v-l
As the next step, the generalized least-square-error curve-fit procedures of the
preceding section are used to obtain the m values of a from equations (7). The step-by-
step process is exactly the same as before, except that the coefficients of the cr’s of
equations (7) are now used to set up the first matrix.
Substituting the derived values of the a’sin equation (5) resultsin an equation of
degree m in (cos co) as the unknown. From the m roots of this equation, the desired
values of w are found.
COMPUTING AMPLITUDES
The w’smay now be substituted in equations (2), and the generalized least-square-
error method of the preceding section used to solve for the amplitude coefficients
(A’s and B's) as in the example of the first section.
DETERMINING COMPOSITE AMPLITUDES AND PHASES
The frequency and amplitude of each of the m sinusoid-cosinusoid pairs that
best fit the filter output data are now known. Each pair can be further combined into
a single sinusoid of the form:
[A cos(tot)+ B sin (wOJ = C sin(tot + 0)
Where:C=y/A2 + B2
and: 0 = tan“
With this step, the task is complete-and the frequency, amplitude, and phase of
each of the m sinusoidal components in the data has been identified. The final
approximation equation is:
S(t>
Cj sin(a>] t +
) + C2 sin (to2 t + 02)+ ••• + Cm sin (com t + 0m)

--- PAGE 210 of 215 ---

bibliography
I. DIGITALFILTERING AND SMOOTHINGMETHODS
A New Technique for Increasing the Flexibility of Recursive Least-Squares Data
Smoothing, Bell Telephone Laboratories Technical Memorandum, No. MM-60-4435-1
September, 1960.
Correlated Noise in Discrete Systems, J. D. Musa, Beil Telephone Laboratories
Technical Memorandum, No. MM-62-6421-2, May, 1962.
Design Methodsfor Sampled Data Filters, J. F. Kaiser,Bell Telephone Laboratories.
Design of Numerical Filters with Applications to Missile Data Processing, JosephF. A.
Ormsby, Space Technology Laboratories, Inc. Technical Memorandum, No. STL/TR-
6O-OOOO-O9123, March, 1960.
Digital Filters for Data Processing, Marcel A. Martin, General Electric Technical In¬
formation Series,No. 62SD484,October, 1962.
Filtering Sampled Functions, E. D. Fullenwider and B. I. McNamee, U. S. Naval Ord¬
nance Laboratory Technical Memorandum, No. 64-104, July, 1956.
Frequency Domain Application in Data Processing, Marcel A. Martin, General Electric
Technical Information Series,No. 57SD340, May, 1957.
Practical Aspects of Digital Spectral Analysis,VI. Lloyd, Great Britain Royal Aircraft
Establishment Technical Note, SPACE 1l-AD-284-243,May, 1962.
Recursive Multivariate Differential-Correction Estimation Techniques, V. O. Mowery,
Bell Telephone Laboratories Technical Memorandum, No. MM-64-4-212-4, February,
1964.
II. NUMERICAL, STATISTICAL, AND SPECTRAL ANALYSIS (TEXTS)
Lanczos,Cornelius. Applied Analysis. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1956.
Blackman, R. B. Linear Data Smoothing and Prediction in Theory and Practice.
Reading,Mass.: Addison-Wesley PublishingCo.,Inc., 1965.
Stuart, R. D. Introduction to Fourier Analysis. New York: Bames & Noble, Inc
1961.
Hildebrand, Francis B. Introduction to Numerical Analysis. New York: McGraw-Hill
Book Company, 1956.
Ezekiel, Mordecai, and Karl A. Fox. Methods of Correlation and Regression Analysis
(3rd ed.). New York: John Wiley & Sons,Inc., 1959.
Siegel, Sidney. Nonparametric Statistics for the Behavioral Sciences. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1956.
218

--- PAGE 211 of 215 ---

Bibliography
219
Milne, William E. NumericalCalculus. Princeton,N. J.: Princeton University Press, 1949.
Hamming, R. W. Numerical Methods for Scientists and Engineers. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1962.
III. TECHNICAL ANALYSIS OF THE STOCK MARKET
Jiler, W. L. How Charts Can Help You in the Stock Market. New York: Trendline, Inc.,
1962.
Markstein, D. How to Chart Your Way to Stock Market Profits. Englewood Cliffs:
Prentice-Hall,Inc., 1967.
Edwards, R. D., and J. Magee. Technical Analysisof Stock Trends. 5th ed. Springfield:
John Magee,Inc., n. d.
Cootner, Paul H., ed. The Random Character of Stock Market Prices. Cambridge:
M.I.T. Press, n. d.

--- PAGE 212 of 215 ---

Index
Alloys Unlimited
moving average, applications
inverse, centered; 109-112
10 and 20 week: 63
10 week, centered; 65-66
tradingintervaleffect; 23-25
Amount of move prediction;see Prediction
Amplitude
definition; 169
determination
digital filter; 44,45,46,193
Fourier analysis; 173-175
inverse moving averages; 109-112
Amplitude-duration, relationship; see Fourier analysis.
Frequency,Proportionality
Amplitude-frequency, relationship; see Fourier analysis,
Frequency
Angular frequency;see Frequency
Brokerage displays; see Tracking of prices
Buy; see Signals
Capitalization;see Screening factors
Channels; see Envelope analysis
Chart patterns;see also Trendlines, Triangles
box, coil, diamond, flag,pennant, wedge;59, 67
channels; 52-53, 55-56, see also Envelope analysis
double tops and bottoms; 57-58, 67
failure detection; 59-62
gaps, islands, measured moves, saucers, one-day
reversals;61
head and shoulders; 52, 54-56, 60, 67
validity concept;
61-62
“V" top and bottom; 61-67
Chart services; see Services
Coarse frequency structure; see Fourier analysis, Fitter
Comb filters; see Filter
Commonality
examples; 44-49, 201-203
expression; 32, 34-35, 48, 201-203
principle; 28.23-33,34-35
time-synchronization; 32-33, 35, 48-49, 95, 161,
166-167, 201-203
variations from; 32-33,35,201-203
Component durations
tables of; see Nominality
Component rate-change; see Proportionality
Compounding; see Profit
Construction, envelopes; see Envelope analysis
Contracted data; see Envelope analysis
Cosinusoidal amplitude determination; see Fourier
analysis ,
Cover short; sep Signals
Curve fitting '
parabolic; see Interpolation, parabolic
straight line; 184-185
trigonometric; 185,215-217
usage; 183, 185
Cut-loss; see Signals
Cyclicality, state-analysis; 59-61, 73-76, 83-84, 90-91,
151-156
Cyclic model; see Model
Data services; see Services
Decision influence; 30, 35, 141-145, 157
Digital filters; see Filters
Dominance, of components; see Variation
Duration; see Frequency, period relationship
Duration-amplitude relationship; see Proportionality
Duration-magnitude fluctuation; see Variation
Durations, components, tables of;see Nominality
Emotional cyclicality; see Pitfalls
Envelope analysis
application methods; 70-71, 73-77, 79-S2, 85,
87-88, 89-90, 108, 112-113, 124-125, 128-130
centerline significance; 38,108
construction techniques; 37, 69-70, 85
contracted data; 40,41-42,45-48
examples; 25,37-44,46-48,52,65-66,73-75,
79-83, 87-88, 124-126, 128-130, 133
expanded data; 40
nesting downward; 39-40
nesting upward; 38-39
non-real time; 91-93, 96, 124
Error, filter;see Filter
Expanded data; see Envelope analysis
Failure of chart patterns; see Chart patterns
Filter
application; 182-183
combs; 188,191-196
definition; 175-176
design; 178-182
error criteria; 179-180
frequency response; see also Frequency response,
177, 179, 192
lag time; 176-177
movingaverage; see Moving average
output;44-46, 151-152, 183, 193, 196-197
weights; 177-178
Fine frequency structure; see Fourier analysis, Filter
220

--- PAGE 213 of 215 ---

221
Index
Forseeable fundamentals; see Fundamentals
Fourier analysis
example, DJIA;175, 188-191
implications
amplitude-frequency relationship; 191
course frequency structure;190
fine frequency structure; 190
general;175-192
line spectrum, evidence of;189-191, 196-198
method
composite amplitude determination; 175
cosinusoidal amplitude determination; 173-175
data assembly;171
frequency determination;172-173
sequence separation; 172, 173-174
sinusoidal amplitude determination; 174
Frequency
amplitude relationship
course, spectral;190
angular; 170
definition;170
line nature; 189-190, 194-200
modulation;33, 35, 37, 44-46, 57-60, 73-75, 92,
128-129,152, 157
period relationship; see also Proportionality, 170
resolution
course; 189-190
fine; 189-190
spectral; 189-190
response; see Frequency response
sine wave; 169-170
spectrum; 169-171, 188-190
Frequency-amplitude relationship;see Fourier analysis.
Frequency
Frequency response
centered moving average; 207-210
definition; 177
digital filter; 175-177, 179-181
inverse moving average; 210-211
Frequency structure, stock prices; see Fourier analysis,
Filters
Full-span moving averages; see Moving averages
Fundamentals
foreseeable, effect; 29, 31, 34, 48, 142, 145-151, 157,
159-162
grossnational product; 149-151, 157
historical events; see Historical events
motivational; 29, 142-145
risk; 22, 142
timingaid; 29, 145-151, 149-151, 159-262
unforseeable, effect; 31, 34, 157
Geiergraph chart service;116
Greed; see Pitfalls
Gross nationalproduct; see Fundamentals
Group prediction; see Tradingexperiment
Gruen Industries; 71-84, 87-94
Half-span moving average; see Moving average, Signals
Historical events; 30-31, 34, 48, 145-154
Hold; see Signals
Industry group prediction; see Trading experiment
Interpolation, parabolic
method; 212-214
usage; 185, 212
Inverse movingaverage; see Moving average. Signals
Investing vs trading;seeProfit
Irrational decision processes; see Decision
ISL daily stock price index; 121
Issue selection
scan; see also Scan criteria, 115-116, 119-120, 127
screening;see also Screening factors, 116-119, 127
stable;see also Stable concept, 115,120-121
traditional;115
Lag time; see Filter,Moving average
Least-square-error
generalized method; 215-217
parabolic data fit;212-214
straight line data fit;183-185
trigonometric data fit; 215-217
usage; 183-186
Line Spectrum;see Fourier analysis
Magnitude-duration ftuctuition;see Variation
Mansfield chart service; 186
Market potential; see Profit
Maximization of profit;see Ptofit
Mid-band; see Signals
Model
,
cyclic sub-model;31-35, 38, 40-41, 44-45, 48, 50,
52, 55,59, 61,124-125,128, 157
motivational; 143-144, 157
price-motion; 10, 29, 30-34,50,55, 57-59, 115,
119-120,124-125,128,157,159-160
spectral; 199-200
Modulation; see Frequency
Motivational model; see Model
Moving average
characteristics
_
,„
frequency response; 97-98, 176-178, 207-210
lag; 65-66, 67, 98, 112, 176, 208
smoothing;63-65, 67, 97-98, 208-209
span;63, 67, 98, 208
weights;178
examples; 63-66, 98-107, 125-130, 132-134
significance;62-63, 62-65, 67, 208-210
types
centered; 65-67, 207-210
full-span; 98-108, 112-113, 124
half-span, 97-107, 112-113, 124, 125-127, 132-134
inverse;109-113, 128-130, 176, 210-211
non-centered;63
Nested lows; see Signals
Nesting; see Envelope analysis, Signals
Nominality
durations; table of; 33
principle; 33, 35,50, 128, 199
Non ieal-time envelope; see Envelope analysis
Numerical filters; see Filter
Outside influences; see Pitfalls
Period; see Frequency
Persimmon effect;see Pitfalls
Phase; 57, 169, 177, 207-211, 217
Pitfalls;
emotional cyclicality, 166-167
greed; 162-163
magnitude-duration fluctuation', 159

--- PAGE 214 of 215 ---

222
Index
outside influences; 160-162
• persimmon effect; 163
scale effect;165-166
time distortion; 164-165
unforseen fundamental factors; 159
Potential for profitability; see Profit
Prediction
amount; 93-94, 99-107, 109-112, 125-126, 131-132
half-span example; 97-107
potential for; 9, 21, 23-26, 29-30, 36, 135
risk; 9, 131-132, 142
time; 59-61, 70-71, 73-75,79-85, 90-96, 109-112,
124-131
Price-motion model;see Model
Price-move prediction;see Prediction
Price tracking; see Tracking, of prices
Principle of commonality; see Commonality
Principle of nominality; see Nominality
Principle of profit maximization; see Profit
Principle pf proportionality; see Proportionality
Principle of summation; see Summation
Principle of variation; see Variation
Profit
compounding; 9, 26, 204-205
I
maximization
fluctuations, as sources; see also Transaction
interval effects, 21, 23-26
principles of; 27, 124, 131
time invested;22, 27, 95
tradinginterval effect;see Transactioninterval
effect
trading vs investing; 22, 27
potential
action signals; 36
market; 9, 23-26, 134-137, 138-140
rate-summation effect; 206
Profit maximization model; see Profit, Model
Profit preservation; see Signals
Proportionality
amplitude vs duration, chart; 34
principle; 33-35, 50, 191
rate constancy,relationship. 191
Psychological barriers; see Pitfalls
Randomness
magnitude; 30, 34,48, 153, 157
motivational; 29, 35, 142-145
prediction aid; 29, 143
Rate-change constancy, components; see Proportionality
Rate-summation effect; see Profit
Rate-summation, sinusoidal; see Summation
Resolution; see Frequency
Scale effect; see Pitfalls
Scan criteria
component status;116, 127
dominant cyclicality; 116, 127
long-term breakout; 119-120, 127
trend; 116, 127
triangles; 119
volume; 116-127
Screening factors
stability
price-earnings ratio; 118-119, 127
earnings growth; 118-119, 127
rating; 118-119, 127
yield; 118-119
summarized; 119
volatility
capitalization; 117-118, 127
importance; 119
percentage motion; 117, 127
short interest; 117-118
volume vs capitalization; 117, 127
Screw and bolt corp.
analysis; 127-135
selection; 127
Selection of issues; see Issue selection
Selling; see Signals
Selling short; see Shorting. Signals
Services
chart; 115-116, 122, 159
data; 115, 121-122, 128
trade-by-trade tracking; 121, 122
Shorting; 23, 73, 75-76, 93-96, 101-107, 116, 119
Short interest; see Screening factors
Short selling; see Shorting
Signals
buy
characteristics desired; 78
edge-band;79-82, 85,90, 127, 132-133
half-span average;99-107, 108-109, 109-113,
125-127, 132-134
inverse average;109-113; 129-130
mid-band; 82-83, 85, 90
nested lows; 74-77, 79-80, 82, 85, 129-134
trendline; 78-83, 85, 129, 131-134
triangle resolution; 59-61, 83-85, 90-92, 112
cover short; see also Signals,Buy; 93-96, 101-107,
108-109, 112-113
cut-loss; 86-90, 96, 132-135
hold; 86-90, 99-107, 108-109, 112-113, 124-126,
131-134
sell; 90, 91-93,95, 96, 99-107, 111, 113, 134
sell short; see also Signals, Sell;93-96, 101-109,
112-113,134
trailing sell;88-91, 96, 131-134
wait;74-75, 131-132
Sine wave; see Frequency
Sinusoidal amplitude determination; see Fourier
analysis
Sinusoidal rate summation; see Summation
Span, moving average; see Moving average
Special orders; see Trackingof prices
Spectral model; see Model
Spectrum; see Frequency
Stable concepts
displays; 120-122
charting; 115-116, 120-121, 164-166
purpose; 115, 120, 122
Stability; see Screening factors
Standard and Poor '500’average
comparison with DJIA; 201-203
Standard Packaging
envelope analysis;45-48
synchronization example; 48-49
Stock services;see Services
Summation
principle; 32, 34, 48, 52-59
sinusoidal rates; 204-206

--- PAGE 215 of 215 ---

Index
223
Synchronization; see Commonality
Time distortion effect; see Pitfalls
Timing; see Prediction
Timeinvested, effect on profit;see Profit
Time-of-tum prediction; see Prediction
Time synchronization; see Commonality
Tracking of prices
brokerage displays; 121, 135
constraint effects; 121
need; 27
personal ticker, Trans-Lux; 121-133
special orders; 121-122
Tracking Services;see Services
Trading experiment
conclusions; 9, 139-140
industry group predictions; 137-138
issues; 138-140
market predictions;136, 138
objectives;135
operations;135-139
yield achieved; 9, 135, 140
Trading vs. investing; see Profit
Trailingsell; see Signals
Transactioninterval effect
example; 9, 23-26, 131, 204-206
profitability impact; 9, 23-26, 131, 204-206
Transaction timing; see Prediction
Trans-Lux Personal Ticker;121-122
Trendlines
formation;52-56, 67
valid;61-62, 78-79, 79-81, 84-85, 87, 90, 95-96,
112, 123-124,131-134
Trendlines, Current Market Perspectives; 159
Triangles
examples;57-61, 83-84, 90-91
formation; 57-62
resolution; 57-61, 83-84, 90-91
Unforeseeable fundamentals; see Fundamentals
Valid trendlines; see Trendlines
Variation;see also Commonality
component dominance; 33, 38
examples; 37-48, 73-75, 128-131, 201-203
expression;33
magnitude-duration fluctuation;32-33, 35, 37-38,
45-46,48,74,85,129-130
principle; 32-33, 37-48
time-synchronization;see Commonality
Volatility; see Screening factors
Volume; see Scan criteria
Writ; see Signals
Warner Co.;45-46
Weights; see Filter, Moving average
Yield rate
meaning; 22
possible; 9, 23-26, 76-77, 124, 134-135, 138,
139-140, 204-206
versus transactioninterval; see Transactioninterval