================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 161861965-144sqrr.pdf
Total Pages: 19
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 19 ---

144 Square 
 
I’m new to the group, I will post some information we can share with 
each other, about the master charts, how they interelate, and what they 
are based on.  
 
For instance the 144 square shows and defines every market move, from 
the smallest move to the largest swing, the ratios that dominate all 
market movements are the ones every one is familiar with, sacred geo, 
fib, 144 and its multiples, 144 is based on the 12 months, but more 
importantly, Jupiter’s synodic cycle, and also the 1440 minutes in the 
day, the reason why nobody can use the 144 square is they cannot put it 
in time correctly, Gann told everybody to put it on a major high or 
low, that is the biggest line of bullshit he ever wrote.  
 
All markets, you cannot find the starting point if you cannot fit every 
minute of the day into the square, when you have the repeat of a time 
price configuration at the same minute, then you know the cycle that is 
operating.

--- PAGE 2 of 19 ---

I will post seven different days that the market had its origin in the 
same time price configuration. When you understand what is happening in 
the market the master charts take on new meaning, because they are 
designed to work with each other and they do. Basically, Gann knew the 
market was only a geometric solid rotating in front of you, but he also 
knew our senses would not allow us to "see" it, so he created the 
144 square which puts a multidimensional thing like a market into a 
lattice structure that would define more correctly a two dimensional 
awareness. Smart mofo wasn’t he?  
 
The circle defines market movements, 360 degrees has in itself the key 
to the 144 square, they are incredibly related, once you understand 
what the circle really is, then you understand what the geometric solid 
is that is behind the market movements. All you need is written in 
Gann’s books and courses, it’s just your own mind that probably 
prevents you from full understanding. I write this not for recognition, 
but I know lots of Gann students work hard at this stuff, I assure the 
things he spoke of are true. Rest assured, people with tremendous left 
brain logic, atheists or agnostics will never figure Gann’s methods 
out, you need a tremendous amount of right brain awareness and cold 
logic combined, and a connection with the universal mind is also 
needed. 
 
 
Let’s take a look at time and price and see if we can balance it the 
way old Gann did. The emini today is sitting on a price level that 
was balanced some time ago, around the 1066 level, 1064 today I 
believe it closed near. The time angles are in relation to the price 
are way out of balance. Time is seriously ahead of price at this 
conjunction, the clock time balanced out at 139 at 109 pm and the 
longer term time frame came in at 71.79 time angle, the middle of 
the square, the reciprocal 1 divided by 71.79 equals 139 in time 
balancing the clock time, the price is on a 45 degree price line 
that is now old, meaning that theoretically the market tomorrow 
morning should be off to a price level near 1080 to realign itself 
with the time period, thus bringing the time and price in alignment 
with the forty five degree angle. The true forty five degree angle. 
If the market perhaps blows thru 1080, then it will go to the next 
gravity center of 1086.54, and if hits 1080 and reacts down it 
should settle near the lower gravity center of 1076. Let’s see what 
happens. The old circle of three times itself. I only ask if what I 
say is totally wrong and lame, go easy on me, im here to share with 
you guys !!! gann said that EVERYTHING seeks its gravity center, so 
let put that old dude to the test, shall we ???????????? 
 
Hi you folks 
 
I uploaded a file called time price returns, this shows three days 
exactly so many ............ apart, they are all different days, the 
times and the prices are cut off to prevent reverse enginering, 
notice the similar pattern from the opening each day, follow the 
pattersn and swings, this happened because the first day, the time 
was 49 and the price was 14.25, the harmonic ratio was 2.91, or 
three over the second square of 144,, this means price and time are 
balanced whenever your time price configurations come on the end of 
the square, the next day the time was also at the same ratio but

--- PAGE 3 of 19 ---

different time price configurations, the third day also came in on a 
2.88 harmonic, also different positions in the square, but the same 
ratio at the same time, so the pattern must repeat ,when this 
happens, this is harmonic analysis, the reason a person cannot see 
this with their eyes, is because you have no origin point to define 
time price configurations, its like walking down a five mile road 
and being asked to describe five things that repeated, not likely, 
same with the market, you need a fixed point to get points of 
mathematical force to determine when they happen again, then it is 
likely to repeat a pattern. 
 
 
I feel that the market you look at, any market you look at is an 
illusion, the time on the chart is an illusion, the price you look 
at is an illusion, but behind and back of the chart is the geometric 
solid that price and time are working off. When I say to you, "what 
time is it" and you say its 630 pm, and I say thanks, and we both 
agree that it is six thirty pm, but is it really six thirty pm ?, it 
is only 630 pm because we have a point of reference that we agree 
on, that we have been taught,that our body senses it is six thirty 
pm, at some point in time, we adopted a time system, but this time 
system is based on astro cycles, all time is based in some origin of 
an astro cycle. Ponder this. I am sitting on my porch, I am at zero 
aries or 360 pisces. I am Fred Flinstone, and hovering out in front 
of me is the great gazoo, he is not subject to the laws that i am, 
while im here on earth, so were talking and four, eight, twelve, and 
the sixteen minutes elapse and im moving and rotating right along, 
but ol gazoo remains fixed at the origin point, now we began talking 
at lets say 630 am, and time goes by some more and now i have moved 
90 degrees away from gazoo, but we are still talking and im turning 
the corner now, while he remains fixed at the starting point, 12 
hours later im now 180 degrees from gazoo, but he is still talking 
with me, i keep on moving around approaching the 270 degree position 
and we are still talking well enough, now I am approaching him 
again, as i am completing my revolution, when i get to where gazoo 
is, i have not quite completed my cycle yet, so continue past gazoo 
and stop some point further along the zodiac, ponder this goofy 
story well 
 
When the fellows in the movie quest for fire, wanted to know what 
time it is, one of the drooling low foreheads asked his partner what 
time is it, so he could go pick up his new issue of gentlemens 
quarterly. The drooling fellow checked his Rolex and responded, its 
1:44 pm. These fellows would have surely have been aware and watched 
the environment for constant feedback on how to cope and surive and 
learn something of the the situation, lets suspend our belief in 
time for a moment, and say that it doesnt exist, let say we had a 
square of nine, and we noticed that the seasonal time periods are so 
close the gann square that we cannot ignore these time periods. 
Geometry says that any circle no matter how small or large contains 
360 degrees, gann always said i measure everything with the circle, 
time, price, volume, space, whatever you want, then he says i put 
the square and the triangle inside the cirlce to get important point 
for resistance for either time, price, space or anything i want, how 
come none of you see or talk about, or figure on the earthly year of 
365 days to the circle in geometry, isnt that what gann screams at 
you with the square of nine, or do you think it just a square root

--- PAGE 4 of 19 ---

calculator, do any of you understand the ratio that the square of 
nine is built and designed on ?, the SEASONS are the time periods, 
thats what the MASTER CHARTS are built on and designed upon, its 
funny how want to make things so complicated, This rotating 
geometric solid you all wonder about, is your own earth, lol. Gann 
said everything has four sides, a ceiling and a floor, if you put 
144 cells on each side, to complete the building, you would need to 
run out 864 or the six square of 144, yesterday at 1130 am time was 
sitting on the middle of the square, the emini in price was sitting 
on a .720 time price relation with the time angle, that is your 
second circle, and its the fifth square of 144, the building is 
still under construction, you guys and ladies have much more math 
abilitiy than myself, my math skills are eighth grade level, but i 
dont need all that stuff, i can set any market in time and price 
correctly inside the master charts. 
 
 
In the master charts section of Ganns course, he speaks of how older 
stocks when price gets high, the swings are rapid and wide, he says 
this is because the forty five degree angles are further apart, this 
lends itself to the fact that vibratory nature of something changes 
as it gets older, that would lend itself to music theory. A number 
of years ago it was common to find those large wooden stereos in 
people houses, the kind with the turntable inside and the lifting 
top. When i was small, I used to clamp my teeth on the edge of that 
cabinet and then my bones would act as a conduit for the musical 
vibration, I have read other stories from people who described other 
kids doing the same. A deaf person could easily feel the music at a 
live show on the same basis. Music theory refers to different modes, 
such as Lydian, Phrygian, Locrian, Ionian, Dorian, Mixolydian and 
Aeolian. Some players like Carlos Santana, might be considered modal 
players because when you see him live, he can easily manipulate a 
crowd of people with tension, release, melancholy, brightness, this 
ability has something to do with a mode of playing, it appears it 
also has its origin in the way a band will comp his playing. Guitar 
players like George Benson and Wes Montgomery made a living playing 
octaves, where they strike two different strings, ie the same notes 
simultaneously, this is a very pleasing and interesting sound to the 
ear, like a marriage of sound, the notes have sympathetic resonance 
it seems. I belive the musicians term for this is, Harmonic 
Discordance. It appears as you stack the 144 squares on top of each 
other, the vibration of that particular square would change, it 
might be possible to build the 144 squares according to a diatonic 
scale, and the steps and intervals between might be a way to define 
vibration to particular numbers in the square, much the same as 
notes having their own vibration, this would lend itself to gann 
statement, the higer the prices go the faster the swings, depending 
on the position of the price and what square its in. This would be 
applicable to time angles, as numbers are numbers, if one vibrates, 
they all do. Find a all time low or high in a market, and take the 
22.5, 45, 90 points and you will see some vibrational laws at work. 
On page 169 of the master charts section Gann says, "Prices are 
governed by time and time causes prices to change and the time 
angles are the resistance to price. These are measured in hours of 
longtitude which are basic geometric angles and determine the change 
of trend" Why do the time angles of 36,45,54,72,81,84,90,108,126 
causes markets intraday to change trend, its because these time

--- PAGE 5 of 19 ---

angles are like brick walls to price when it gets there. When you 
measure time from the seasons, arent you measuring hours of 
longtitude ? and arent the basic geometric angles he speaks of the 
time angle that i speak of ? They arent if you describe the theory 
that a Gann angle must be a diagonal, but thats another story 
 
 
Below is a response…I have not included it, as its not Pure Prof…
 
 
Thats a intersting way to look at it yes, everybody sees things 
differently in their own mind, eye look at it like this, if you take 
your circle. 360 and divide it by 45 degree angles, you get eight of 
them, this is like the octagon that the martial artists use to throw 
and skeletal freeze someone. If you visualize this octagon on the 
ground with it eight even sections, these are the one eights gann 
spoke of, or for murrey math students, your eight square. Now 
visualize reaching down to the middle of the circle where all the 
lines intersect and pick it up, now the object looks different as it 
it standing up, this apex point that you picked up is your fifty 
percent point or the middle of the eights, this can be your forty 
five degree point, they all are forty five degree points, but this 
is the true gravity center of them. These price levels that the time 
angle creates can define whether the market under observation is in 
the bullish side of the square or in the bearish side, for the 
clever folks, this line of thinking can tell you where to put your 
gann fans intraday, when you know a point in space and time that is 
correctly defining the forty five degree angle, then the angles 
above and below the forty five can be the angles for the bullish and 
bearish side of the square. You can do lots of interesting things 
when you know what time angle is operating. 
 
The last time eye was in here, there was bitter discussion about 
copyright violations over some tired ass wheel of twenty four. Lets 
get on the track to some serious Do Re Mi, or perhaps Fa So La Ti 
Do. For some time now, I have had in my possession a time period 
that governs when the wheel returns to its origin. I acquired this 
from the akashic records. So then eyem thinking thinking thinking, 
did Gann operate on this same time factor, I refer you to A.S. 
Raleigh's book, Occult Geometry and Hermetic Science of Motion and 
Number, read the first page and you see that the wheel returns to 
its position, but when does this happen ? Gann made two statements 
that are the key to his trading application, the first one is, "time 
angles govern price", and the second one "Everything seeks a gravity 
center" The two laws that govern all matter are the law of 
heptaparaparshinokh and the triamazikanmo, ie, the law of seven and 
the law of three. Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti Do, an octave, monday tuesday 
wednesday thursday friday saturnsday sunsday and the repetition of 
the octave returning to the Do or monday, an octave, when twenty 
four of these octaves run out, the wheel returns to its position. 
This is 192 calendar days, THE time factor. In looking back from 
1940, our hero supreme was born on june ninth 1906, young Bobbie 
discovered his master time factor on june 19 1927, this is exactly 
7680 days from his birth, 7680 is forty octaves of 192 calendar 
days, turn to page forty and read how gann describes the WHEEL. 
Young Hero Gordon girlfriend Marie left him on june 5 1927 and 
returned August 30 1932, this is exactly 1913 days from her stage

--- PAGE 6 of 19 ---

left exit, Do you think these numbers were arbitrarily used ? ten 
octaves of 192 calendar days are 1920 days, but Gann returned her 
exactly seven days early, a Week, a diatonic octave, the law of 
seven, the law of vibration to show you the law. He chose the ten 
octaves because the number ten is the alpha and the omega, I refer 
you to Brydlovan theory of numbers, I also refer you to page seven 
and ten, and notice how Gann is again speaking of the WHEEL. Read 
professor OBJOYFUL analysis of the reason Marie left, notice his 
description of Uranus, Uranus sits 19.19 astronomical units from the 
Sun, check the position of Uranus on last date of the book, August 
30 1932, it sits at exactly 23 degrees aries, and if you use the 
circle, this would be 360 plus 23, 383 degrees, and the second 
octave of the master time factor is 384, one over, and this one is 
the ending and the beginning of the next cycle, The cycle of 192. 
Check the relationship of the 144 square to this 192, the difference 
is 48 units, hours, days, 192 is four octaves of 48, 48 days times 
24 hours is 1152, the eight square of 144 or the sixth octave of 
192, 48 hours times 60 minutes is 2880 the fifteenth octave of 192. 
Supreme commander gave the world fifteen days to respond, or 360 
hours. The earth year 365.25 divided by the time factor 192 is 
1.902, again the master repeating time factor. Now, eight days at 24 
hours is 192 hours, the first diatonic octave, and twenty four of 
these diatonic octaves is 192 calendar days, when the wheel is 
reset. 48 days times 24 hours in a day is 1152 hours, times 60 is 
69120 seconds, and this is the 360 octave of the master time factor 
192, proving up the relationship between 144 and 192, you can use 
the 144 square within the 192 CD octave. Our young hero discovered 
his time factor on 6 19 1927, Here Gann being at his cleverest, 
disguises the master time factor right in front of your EYE ballz. 
He teaches you the fib spiral first with 619, then he teaches you 
the master time factor of 192 CD, then finally teaches you the law 
of seven, ie the law of vibration. His tunnel kept pilot sleeping 
for seven days, his gas seven, on page 238 Gann discusses the law of 
three, with his positive, negative, neutral principles, the Do, FA, 
LA vibration, which deny, consolidate, and shock price levels. Gann 
sent his hero to Paris to keep him from losing his brain for thirty 
one days, 31 divided by the master time factor is 1618, he again is 
teaching you the fib spiral, which by the way is governed by the law 
of octaves in pascals triangle. Our other master guru, George Bayer 
knew the 192 day cycle, Bayer says the THING that moves the wheel is 
engraved on every violin made, go check that out, and see it is the 
moons node, the retro guy who goes backward 360 degrees every 
18.924024 days, and the 192 day cycle times 36 cycles is that moons 
node return. Knowing this time factor is only half of the gordion 
knot, I recommend you to the book Cosmic Secrets by Russell Smith, 
the best ever writtin on trading, learn the octaves and inner 
octaves, and then apply your time factor to get your gravity points 
where the price happily runs to every day without fail. At any 
moment in a markets action, it is simply moving to a gravity center 
between to stopinders on the diatonic scale, if you want the minute 
movment, calculate the minute octave, if you want the hourly 
movements caculate the hourly octaves and if you want the general 
direction of the market calculate the day time angles, is is simply 
wheels within wheels, I prefer octaves within octaves, between any 
two vibrations are inner octaves and inner octaves and inner octaves 
and inner octaves and inner octaves, Learn that book and you have 
the Gann dillemna solved. Let the hate mail Begin

--- PAGE 7 of 19 ---

Mercury I Sun 57910 87.97 7.00 0.21 -- (0) 
Venus II Sun 108200 224.70 3.39 0.01 -- (0) 
Earth III Sun 149600 365.26 0.00 0.02 - - (0) 
Mars IV Sun 227940 686.98 1.85 0.09 - - (0) 
Jupiter V Sun 778330 4332.71 1.31 0.05 -- (0) 
Saturn VI Sun 1429400 10759.50 2.49 0.06 -- (0) 
Uranus VII Sun 2870990 30685.00 0.77 0.05 Herschel 1781 (0) 
Neptune VIII Sun 4504300 60190.00 1.77 0.01 Adams(9) 1846 (0) 
Pluto IX Sun 5913520 90550 17.15 0.25 Tombaugh 1930 (0) 
 
Here is some proof the 192 cycle is valid, it appears there is some 
significane with Uranus, it is the seventh planet, giving to the law 
of vibration, also it is synodic period is seven octaves of 12 
signs, months. Also there is 18 days slippage of a perfect harmonic 
from 192 calendar days. 84 times 365.25 plus 21 days for leap give 
you 30702, 192 times 160 gives 30720, eighteen days off a perfect 
octave of 160. 2.618 plus 1 gives 3.618, the root of this number is 
1.902, this ratio is sared as it describes the diagonal of a golden 
rectangle, also it describes the side of the pyramid of Giza, the 
south furthest south angle from the top to the base. Using the 
planetary data up above, starting with mercury. Get the ratios 
between each two planets. 87.97 / 224.7 / 365.2 / 686.98 / 
4332.71 / 10759.5 / 30685 / 60190 / 90550 
 
.391, .618, .531, .158, .402, .350, .509, .667, add these numbers 
for 3.626, square root 1.904 proving the cycle validity. It proves 
up the circle, the earth year, the moon cycle, proves up a lot 
things. Notice that nine ojbects have EIGHT ratios between, once 
again the Diatonic Octave, Do, Re, Me, Fa, So, La, Ti, Do 
mercury, venus, earth, mars,jupiter, saturn, neptune, uranus, pluto. 
When you add the Son, i mean sun, perhaps Sol, Osirus, notice how 
Horus, the winged messenger, sits so close to parents, Osirus and 
Isis. If you take the reciprocal of 3.618, 1 / 3.618 you get 2763957 
Now divide that by the time factor 192, and you get 144, Ganns 
master time and price chart, the square of 12. The knowledge of the 
ancients is beyond comprehension. I recommend everybody read some of 
the builder of the CORAL CASTLE in Florida, try to figure out how 
this one hundred pound man moved over 31 tons of Coral, and overcame 
the laws of something we know nothing, Gravity, with laws we also 
know nothing about. In George Bayers four hundred years of astrology 
on page 142 and 182 he makes a couple interesting statements about 
what activates the agency in nature. Our universe makes the wildest 
science fiction look like a Dr Suess book. 
 
Poor Hero Gordon, his precious Marie giving the greasy eye to 
another fellow, causing Bobbie much of a troubled heart, making him 
punish the only one he wants, go figure that. Speaking of Masons, in 
one very old book, a young farmer asked the strange older guy, are 
you a Mason ?, the guys, yes I am, What is a Mason ?, A builder, A 
builder of what ?, A temple, A temple to what ?. If you read the 
very old books on Freemasonry, you will read paragraph after 
paragraph in the Tunnel, written word for word from these older 
books. Mr Gann certainly was in possession of very occult and 
esoteric knowledge, the way Mr Gann obtained much of this knowledge 
was not of his own intellect, although no one denies his mind was 
brilliant, this lends itself even more to the idea that Mr Gann

--- PAGE 8 of 19 ---

obtained his knowledge from the web of creation, the source if you 
will, I dont like to name it, so I wont. The information that I 
impart to you and write about, is not of my own intellect either, I 
get it from the web of creation. If this offends you, I apologize, 
if not drink deep, cause its the truth. The master charts are a a 
very cool thing when used right. First off the idea to get out of 
your head is to stop looking at those charts, plastic overlays, 
spirals charts as flat things, in your mind pick each one of them up 
with your thumb and forefinger at the very center, and LIFT it up, 
do this in your mind with every master chart you have, Give them 
Height, width, length, dimension, depth, and transparency, Lift them 
up like pyramids. Here is one idea, tape the master square of 144 up 
on your ceiling, let it hang from the ceiling, walk to the side of 
it, looking at the plastic chart from its edge, very thin now, with 
your hands reach out to either side of it, and grab it in the 
middle, pulling it out in opposite directions, now you have a ball, 
sphere, but keep the lines on this ball, the angles are now wrapped 
all around this ball. In your mind STEP inside this holographic 
sphere, and look around as your standing inside the center, and look 
out thru every angle, rotating yourself like a spinning vector, this 
is the fourth dimension of trading, now imagine the price action 
running around this holographic square of 144 converted into a 
global sphere. Here now is the missing element that I have never 
heard discussed before, When your trying to use these charts, for 
example, you need the use the master time factor that I wrote about 
previously, you can easily use ANY square, when ONCE the market 
under observation is SET in TIME correctly, when this is done, it 
does not matter what square you use, math is math. Example, square 
of 144, when you are day trading, you use hours, when 144 hours 
runs, out most people talk of returning the time back to zero, on 
the bottom left of the square, stop doing this, run the market up 
from the bottom right corner to the top right corner, when that 144 
time runs out, run the market from the top right corner to the top 
left corner, and when that runs out, run it down the fourth side 
from the top left to the bottom left or beginning, you calcuate the 
price the same way, always running the TIME around and around the 
square, from the bottom, up to the top, from the right top the to 
the left top, then back down, starting all over again. When you can 
do this correctly, you will know what those circles are for that are 
within the 144 square. This way you are advancing the market every 
twenty four hours along EACH face of the pyramid, grid by grid, 
constantly wrapping the Time as it passes thru each section of the 
pyramid, calculating the price and time squarings from the different 
SIDES of the square, this makes it a revolving sphere, which is what 
Gann developed these things. To quote from the movie, "If we live in 
gigantic spiral, and we are blueprinted from a sprial, then 
EVERYTHING we put our hands to, must be a spiral. Use your 192 
calendar count, use your 144 square within this count, and rotate 
the time count just like described above, and you will be delighted 
at what you see. 
 
Somethings are endemic to the race, such as the need to seek outside 
guidance from yourself. We seek everything everywhere outside of 
ourselves. We seek the source in a building with a cross on it. We 
seek the source from another individuals experience with it. We seek 
the source in others writings. But this source is within your own 
yard. The more you live in your vehicle body and the more ego you

--- PAGE 9 of 19 ---

generate the more separated you are from IT. The more you rely on 
your senses the more the illusion becomes. Your senses pick up only a 
small portion of the available octave for its vibrational spectrum. 
Which is the way the architect desinged it, giving us something in 
common, a particular wavelenth, change this dial and behold whats 
behind the looking glass. Seek the silence within yourself. On to the 
GAnn Meister. I have much of the Gann material, the books, the 
courses, the overlays, the hand drawn charts, all kinds of misc stuff 
along the periphery. Have you ever notice that NOWHERE does Gann talk 
in his courses and books like he speaks in his ticker digest 
interview ? These two different pieces of literature are as 
diametrically opposed as can be. Why ? Because what is in those 
courses is shortcuts designed by him for him. Leaving us in the dark, 
so lets put some white light on that. Here is my take on how Gann 
traded under observation and in the market pits perhaps, I imagine 
Gann holding a Tesla coil in his hand, a Wilhem Reich orgone 
generator attached to his a.., and a pyramid on his head. Now in his 
brain I see Faradays magnetic lines, complex regression analysis, 
fourier transforms, sine waves oscillating back and forth around a 
gravity center for bullish and bearish sentiment. Archimedes 
geometric solids rotating in three dimension inside his coconut. A 
Annunuki mother ship in a holding pattern 618 miles above him 
downloading the exact planetary relationships. A lot of folks will 
vehemently deny this statement. When Gann beat up the market in his 
thirties, he did this with a math model based on comsology of 
Ouspensky and Gurdjieff based on time angles. This celestial stuff 
came later in life with more experience and research. Remember these 
statements, "periodic undulation", "a time factor that repeats", "an 
entirely different law works on the ascension as from the 
descension", "the forces behind this motion are also under a law or 
state of vibration" "stocks are like gravity centers" "they are like 
electrons jumping orbits" "each stock has its own vibratory 
characteristic", "thus I affirm that all classes of phenomena fall 
under this law of vibration" I ask you, have any of you ever read a 
book besides the above cosmologists that have ever laid out the law 
of vibration for you ?, I doubt it, lots of books use the word 
vibration, but hardly a thorough course on what this is and how the 
model is laid out. Its music that most closely models this law. 
Pythagoras had the law and taught it. Prices simply oscillate around 
a rotating vector, ie the time angle, prices get below it, gain it, 
recover it, this is what is meant by time or price being ahead of one 
another. The idea that certain vibrations need to be shocked for the 
ascension, and certain ones need to be shocked for descension is the 
different rule Gann spoke of. Electrons have movement to a phenomena 
called spin up and spin down. It would be quite easy for Mr Gann to 
have in his head the law of octaves, and if trading he only need to 
know what time angle is operating, then simply encapsulate the market 
price in between two vibrations, then recalculate the octaves and 
there is the vibration, ie the prices that the market will bounce off 
of. All I do, is take the day time angle, and calculate the all to 
nothing octave, then calculate the two inner octaves from this. Find 
out where the market is, encapsulate the price between two 
vibrations, and from this is the Do, Re, Mi, Fi, So, La, Ti, Do. I 
have uploaded a file demonstrating this for the emini today, its a 
file called spookygravitycenters. Between the FA SO vibrations is the 
exact gravity center of the octave, and notice the price behavior at 
it, for the market to get strong its a good sign to see it shock the

--- PAGE 10 of 19 ---

SO vibration. I can calculate these prices in three minutes. Just 
riding the rock and rotating the time forward is all thats needed. 
Count out squares of 192 days from the markets first trading day and 
encapsulate the current time and apply the law of octaves as 
described in Cosmic Secrets and you will have all the tops and 
bottoms at your command. I know all of you think my antenna is bent, 
but ONE of you sometime will follow my steps, and you will say, damn, 
hes right. Here is the spooky book of the week. "The master key" by 
Mr Charles Chuck Hannell, and "Trading in the stillness" by Ricky 
Harris, and even a golden but oldie, "Torque Analysis" by Chucky 
Garrett. Let the rock roll and the conversations spin. 
 
eye dont think some people are following the foundation of what i am 
talking about. im sure some dont care either, but for those who are 
trying to get this, here is the time portion of what I do, in theory 
and application. the theory is this, 
do moonsday 
re tuesday 
mi wednesday 
fa thursday 
so friday 
la saturday 
ti sunday 
do monday 
 
most of the world conforms to this week, and we adjust our cycles to 
this divisions of night and day over a twenty four revolution of the 
earth. since there seven days of the week, this lends itself to the 
law of seven, and the diatonic scale is completed with the return of 
the eight position. since there are 24 hours in the day, we take the 
eight position at 24 hours per day, and we have the above octave 
which has 192 hours in it. This we call One octave of time, I stack 
24 of these octaves on that one octave, and this gives us 4608 hours, 
and this divided by 24 is 192 calendar days, So you ask why do you 
stack 24 octaves on this one beginning octave, for the simple reason, 
that we are here on this earth, and this is the earths cycle that we 
adjust ourselves with. so this is the theory behind the 192 cycle, 
and also with the 24 hour revolving of the earth, a lot of gann 
students are obsessed with the other planets, but were here, not 
there, sure there configurations combined with solar wind and 
magnetic force affects us, but its the earths own cyclic behavior 
that we are psychology wired up with. so then after we have run out 
192 calendar days we have run out 24 octaves of this base day of the 
week octave. the number 192 is really not as important as the 
understanding of where it comes from. the days of the week being 
seven, the hours of the day, being 24, and then twenty four octaves 
on top of this base freqeuncy of 192 hours for our base diatonic 
octave of the weekday. Which gives us 192 calendar days. this sets up 
a good time structure as it moves with the calendar, now gann counted 
calendar and trading time on his charts, and there is some truth to 
using trading hours, I can make it work to a certain extent, however 
it is not even remotely close to the power of following the calendar, 
in theory if you want to apply natural science to a market, the the 
idea of using trading hours needs to be abandoned. also when gann was 
trading the markets, the communication of the world was rather slow 
as today, and so the market participants were somewhat regular and 
predictable. But with todays global economy, incredible communication

--- PAGE 11 of 19 ---

capability and the ability to trade from any househould with internet 
capablility makes the stange attractors very chaotic and the only i 
know how to tame that is thru the law of octaves as applied from time 
angles, constantly rotating time forward when your time is correct. 
the practical application of that is obtained by using the first 
trading day of your market and then add forward 192 days which we 
assume is the return of the octave to its beginning again, and take 
the day after this day and add 192 days to that and take the next day 
after that day and add 192 again and again until your time is 
currently encapsulated inside the square of 192, you want to keep the 
squares of 192 separate from one another, do not overlap the number 
192 with the number one, separate the squares and rotate them 
forward, one by one. this is the theory and the application of what i 
have been talking about. The prices are generated from the time 
number, ie, the time angle according to the law of octaves at taught 
in cosmic secrets. most of you should be able to figure this out own 
your own, as i have given some examples of doing this, if your really 
interested i will teach you privately over a couple of days. But I 
think a good study of that book will give you the method. but let it 
be known, I have only scratched the surface of how to apply this, its 
enormously powerful, and a good thoughful application further from 
what im describing can by made by anybody, consider this, one chart 
for any day from 1 to 192 can be made permanent, and as long as your 
market is trading inside the numbers for that chart you have, you 
have a permanent accurate grid of prices for ALL TIME FOR ANY DAY OF 
ANY MARKET ,,,,,,,,,,,, FOREVER. 
 
 
all nothing octaves, your time is ascertained like this, find the 
first trading day for your market in question, i use this website. 
timeanddate.com. it does everything. add 192 days to this date, and 
from the NEXT DAY, add 192 more and follow this up till your 
current. for the emini, you can do two things, use the time count 
from the parent market, which is very accurate, or you can use the 
date of the emini start time, it also gives very accurate price 
projections, or use them both in combination to get very strong 
price projections. the theory holds that time positions give prices, 
and the balancing centers of the octaves draw prices to them. the 
clever person should also see that PRICES give the time when 
something to occure in a market, they are intimitely connected, time 
and price. page 39 in that book is basically the whole ball of wax. 
example, day today is day 110 
 
the emini is somewhere up around 1144, 
110,220,440,880,1760 
just encapsulate your price from this base frequency. 
 
DO 1760 
TI 1540 
LA 1173.3 THE ALL TO NOTHING OCTAVE, 
SO 880 
FA 586.6 
MI 440 
RE 220 
DO 0 
 
NOW, SO VIBRATIONS BECOME DO VIBRATIONS

--- PAGE 12 of 19 ---

DO 1760 
TI 1650 
LA 1466.6 
SO 1320 THE INNER SCALE 
FA 1173.3 
MI 1100 
RE 990 
DO 880 
 
 
 
NOW MI AND SO VIBRATIONS IN THIS SCALE BECOMES DO VIBRATIONS 
 
DO 1320 
TI 1292.5 
LA 1246.6 
SO 1210 THE INNER INNER SCALE 
FA 1173.3 
MI 1155 
RE 1127.5 
DO 1100 
 
NOTICE HOW THE MARKET IS TRADING BETWEEN MI AND RE TODAY, BUT LIKE I 
SAID, BETWEEN ANY TWO VIBRATIONS NO MATTER WHAT THEY ARE, ARE 
DIATONIC OCTAVES, 
 
SO HERE IS HOW WE GOT TODAYS VIBRATIONS 
 
DO 1155 
TI 1151.5 
LA 1145.8 
SO 1141.2 TODAYS FREQUENCIES, THE GRAVITY 
FA 1136.6 CENTERS 
MI 1134.3 
RE 1130.9 
DO 1127.5 
 
HINT, the more wide the octave is between do vibrations, the more 
movement you get, the smaller octaves indicate congestion trading !!! 
 
let the spinning rock do the work for you, smoke the markets, not 
the rock, and notice in ganns magic word, on page thirty eight while 
he is telling everybody to sing, chant, and VIBRATE THE 
YOD HE VAU HE, Gann even tells you to chant and sing the diatonic 
octave notes, its right there that his spooky law of vibration is 
now known to be the comsmological laws of the universe. the law of 
the enneagram. By the way Gann was a master metaphysician as 
indicated by the way he writes in that book, Gann speaks about 
light, and meditation, divine science he knew. 
 
Since you folks are dominating the conversation, lets bring some 
energy on, and this leads us to Billy Williams and his Crocodile. 
Williams says that new information is what causes market trends, ie 
strange attractors, he says that the markets are at least a seven 
dimensional animal, I mean crocodile. He says that markets are where 
they are, because that is where they are, and there is no such thing

--- PAGE 13 of 19 ---

as technical analysis. Preordained gravity centers from time angles 
might have something to say about that. Chucky Drummond says that 
there is no such thing as time, they eliminate that factor from 
there analysis, he also says that markets are framed by higher time 
periods, lower periods being dominated by the energy termination 
points of higher time frames, this is a wonderful concept and it 
appears to have much truth, since there is no such thing as time, 
but there is cyclic rotation of our earth we can take advantage of 
this new energy by following the behavior of our earth. Time seems 
to be mostly a function of our perception, our awareness needs to 
be, for time to be observed, and then the time passes very 
differently for all of us, depending on how we filter and process 
the enviroment. Chucky Drummond says that his point and line 
charting method shows were energy termination points, ie, tops and 
bottoms will occur before they occur by using certain lines drawn 
from the price bars themselves. He states that the bars themselves 
contain energy and thus have forecasting value when certain higher 
time frame configurations occur. Interesting for sure, that idea 
lends us to Kirlian photography that has shown sublte energy around 
the body for many years now. Mr Gann was one of the first to say 
that old bottoms will become future tops, and old tops will become 
future bottoms, how can this be ?, whether the elapsed time be a 
couple hours or twenty years, how can a point of energy in price, 
from the past make future traders behave in a certain way when the 
same cells are worked over ?, this lends us to this question, People 
who have lost limbs, report they still feel and see outlines of 
subtle energy where the limb used to be, How can this be ?, this 
energy must be not only be present, but it remains polarized at that 
time in space where it manifested originally. Gann theory states 
that a price level that acted as a pivot, for the rest of time spins 
out cycles of the same length in time, now imagine for a moment 
every price pivot for any market spinning out time factors forever, 
what a complex grid of energy, now imagine trying to track just the 
major ones, a task that makes no sense to try. You can see what a 
major complex lattice structure each market is. NOw Mr Gann spoke 
about markets who are moving into uncharted territory, have to work 
out the cells before they can advance, he also said the fourth time 
a market trid to break thru a grid of energy, was the time it made 
it, why is that you think ?, also Gann used the word, cells, why do 
you think he said a market has to work out the cells of uncharted 
territory, he knew it was energy spaces that needed to be worked out 
by the traders. Imagine Lewis and Clark going into uncharted 
territory, you know they were constantly taking feedback from the 
terrain and making constant adjustment and decisions from the 
environment, now once they laid tracks, and set up the psychic 
energy, the next guy and the next were easily able to duplicate the 
journey, until it was a worn path. This energy is precisely the same 
thing that is happening in the markets, the way to tame this energy, 
which is the law of vibration, is to use the law of vibration, which 
is the law of octaves, the laws of music theory. Think about why 
Gann said "time angles govern price, and the time angles are the 
resistance to price", and "these are measure in degrees of 
longtitude", ie, the rotating rock, and finally why he 
said "everything seeks a balancing center". This 192 calendar day 
cycle has 4608 hours of rotation in it, and these hours of rotation 
have also very precise gravity centers for something "to happen" 
within a market trading session. The word "everything" means

--- PAGE 14 of 19 ---

everything, so Gann said that everything that is a thing, seeks a 
balancing center. 
 
Eye used to crack up watching Hannibal and his crew bust the nutcase 
Murdock out of the mental hospital so they could go on a mission. 
Speaking of bent antennas, what I will say next will not do anything 
to ease your situation. After studying Gann for fifteen years, 
reading everything available, studying with professional traders, 
spending all my money on courses, I came to the conclusion, that 
everybody had parts of what Gann did, they could use the master time 
charts in a couple of specific ways, they did this and that, but 
nobody had the basis of what is, what it was, what its based on. I 
have meditated for a long time now, I learned how to access the delta 
level, and then I was taught how to employ white vibrational light, 
when you reach this level of meditation, your awareness of your body 
is completely gone, you are deep in the void of yourself, you are a 
ball of pulsating energy, when you can visualize and allow yourself 
to become a sponge of white vibrational light, you become immersed in 
what is a very cool, magnetic, and electric vibrational white light. 
Anyway one day in this state, I just told the universe to download 
into my brain every bit of market knowledge and information that has 
ever been in WD Ganns brain, and not only that but all information 
that has ever been about the law of vibration as applied to the 
markets. I dont have any lock on this stuff so I share it with you. 
Take a look at Mr Gann, does he seem like a good time Charlie to 
you ?, does he seem like the kind of guy who liked everybody he met, 
treated everybody great, he looks to me like the kind of guy who 
didnt take shit from anybody, and probably didnt like to be around 
people all the time. In his books he flat out states, that his 
knowledge of the law of vibration as applied to the markets is HIS, 
and would not be divulged, ever. He states that since he was in a 
position to help others with his master time factor and vibrational 
laws he offered a service to help people make sound investments. For 
anybody who is interested I want to explain what I mean about "the 
grid", let me say this, there are many ways to beat the market, once 
you can establish one way, you just exploit that until your wealthy. 
What I explain to you is the principle of the gann squares, namely 
the one called the master 144 price and time chart, I can use the 
square of nine, but that is a bit different, and I dont like it for 
this discussion. Gann called that square his master time and price 
chart, with the year 1955 on it, it has lots of green timing angles, 
the only one I have ever seen that is any good are made by Bill 
Mclaren. I am going to set up in your mind a model so you can 
envision what is happening with those squares, Imagine a globe, now 
heat shrink the plastic 144 overylay completely around that globe, to 
where this is a perfect fit and no slack, the grid is now wrapped up 
in perfect symetry around the sphere. Now make the the sphere 
holographic and transparent, and make it have depth, now imagine 
yourself sitting in front of this rotating sphere with all the grid 
lines on it, holographic. Now that we have that picture, try this, 
imagine this globe being solid in front of you, rotating like the 
earth does, now we are going to watch a market session unfold on this 
ball, the bell rings and out opens up section of 6.75 hours of space 
on this grid, the price inside this square according to where its at 
the time of the market session. This is the FACE OF THE GRID that is 
in operation for that market duration. The lines and angles only on 
that particular grid session dominate and control that sessions price

--- PAGE 15 of 19 ---

activity, its a unique roller coaster. The market closes, the face of 
the grid closes up, and the ball returns to normall with no windows 
open, the earth moves forward and the ball moves around. 24 hours 
elapsed of earth rotation, and the market opens up again, and 
immediately a new section of the grid appears, 6.75 hours of unique 
angle configuration with the price encapsulated in it. This is the 
face of this new session, and these angles dominate the price action. 
Every day a new piece of the grid opens up for that market session, 
so here is what Im saying, only a SWEEPING piece of grid dis-covers 
the market action for the duration of trading time. Just a sweeping 
pass of that very busy and complex grid. The way to mimick four 
dimensional price time trading is to rotate your market around and 
around the gann grid, each side at one time being the BOTTOM 
according to which square your in, you advance 24 hours across the 
grid every day, all days, according to the 192 master time factor, I 
have a square of 192, or you can use that 144 square. This way your 
just using a conical slice or section of the grid as it passes over 
and over and around the ball, but because our Gann square is flat, we 
mimick this four dimensional rotating ball describe above by doing 
what I just described. This leads me talk about this emini market 
today, This time period of 4608 hours has time gravity centers in it, 
an this is what happens, like today, when the TIME VIBRATIONS DO NOT 
FALL WITH THE TRADING SESSION the market gets flat, like today the 
first hour was a time gravity point, and the next gravity point fell 
out past the 6.75 trading session. So the market got going for a 
while but the energy was gone, and the market meandered around the 
gravity center, now what is happening is this, the TIME VIBRATIONS 
ENERGIZE the trading participants, the price frequencies are 
generated from the time angles, but the time vibrations themselves 
are the gas for the traders. When you have two or three good shocks 
of time vibrations WITHIN THE TRADING SESSION, this is what makes the 
moves good and fast, liquid, and fluid. Again, so you can follow what 
im saying, ONLY A SECTION OF THE GRID PASSES THRU EACH TRADING 
SESSION, THIS IS TRUE FOR TIME AND PRICE. Now perhaps you understand 
why the strange attractors are so wild, because the market opens up 
on a new face of the structure, the gann grid, the enneagram, the 
sacred lines of geometry, which are ALL encapsulated on the master 
time and price chart. Here is what Gann would have developed if he 
was born in the age of the integrated circuit, the final frontier, 
gann was a proponent of being progressive, as he said the man who 
does not continue to learn and study and try new things, will not 
make a success, because he refuses to admit he does not know all 
there is to know, so being progressive is good, and Gann was 
progressive, as you see he made four dimensional model of a plastic 
chart. The computer programmer who can perform this miracle of a 
three dimensional holographic sphere, rotating, constantly in front 
of you, with all the master time and price times lines on it, 
revolving in and in front of you, passing away from you and going 
round and round, so you constantly see the face of the grid that is 
ACTIVE for the session under consideration will have in their 
possession the most sophisticated and accurate trading model for time 
and price analysis that has every come down the pike from the 
spiritual realm. It would rotate at one degree every four minutes, or 
whatevery time speed you wanted it at, and the price would fall and 
rise according to the angles in operation for the specified period, 
this would all be done with the 192 calendar period, and the 4608 
time gravity centers would be on the grid, the octaves frequencies

--- PAGE 16 of 19 ---

would be lit up, this way you would know instantly which TIME 
VIBRATIONS AND WHICH PRICE VIBRATIONS ARE ACTIVE FOR THE SWEEP OF THE 
GRID FOR THE MARKET SESSION. You could be in a position over the 
market with such power, because you will never have to chase it, you 
will know when the press the market and when to leave it alone. 
Madness I tell you, but truthfull madness. Remember Gann said, the 
man who does not change his mind, will soon have no change to mind. 
Profits are kind of crazy with a spooky little price like you !! 
Try to get this inside of your mind, The time and price grids are 
PERMANENT, the only thing that makes them seem different is the TIME 
position, where is IT, in the procession, this is repetition in 
perfection, but it hides itself because of the TIME factor. 
Everything is going this time and price grid, but its the difference 
in the time position that makes it appear different. 
 
The book how to make profits on commodities should have been named, 
How i use the law of octaves in combination with time angles to get 
very accurate buy and sells. This post should gain me even some more 
unpopularity, and the reason is because what Im showing you is 
anticlimactic in a sense, because the search is over, the law of 
vibration is now exposed for what it really is, I have showed you 
how to square price and time with the master charts, what the true 
forty five degree angles really are, how history repeats on a grid 
of permanent resistance points for time and price. I have shown you 
in real time how the market absolutely goes to predetermined 
mathematical points of force even before the traders take it there. 
Eye suspect some of you who follow my posts and work,realize that 
indeed I am showing you how Mr Gann made 286 trades with 264 trades 
being profitable. Cause that is exactly what Im showing you, you 
will never see this work duplicated anywhere, unless of course you 
do it yourself. This is the first time that the law of vibration has 
been demonstrated in print and in real time as exactly Mr Gann 
employed and deployed it. In that book HOw to make profits, on page 
twenty four, the Gannster says "nature balances everything", and he 
says it on page twenty four, Screaming at you, that the rotating 
rock and its 24 hour repititive cycle is the KEY to it all. on page 
30 the Gannster makes a comment about the square of nine and how our 
earth year falls along the circle of geometry, he alludes to the 
Masonic royal cross, the heavenly passing of the sun shocking the 
seasons. Read page 34 and see how Gann tells you about Faradys 
mathematical points of force, and all tops and bottoms are in 
relation to some PREVIOUS HIGH OR LOW, LOL, this is not exactly 
true. Although it is when you do not ride the rock and turn the 
wheel. On page 34 under the title of Range of Fluctuations, GAnn 
made a mockery of his true law of vibration and gave his readers a 
very poor cheap imitation of the LAW. Dividing a range by the number 
eight is the most ridiculous thing, but Gann was not going to give 
it up. The entire Murrey Math system is primarily based on the 
paragraph right there, taking a perfect fractal and making octave 
shift changes as it moves thru its harmonic intervals, however with 
one HUGE mistake, it does not apply and take into consideration the 
retardation within the diatonic scale that occurs between the Mi Fa 
and Ti DO vibrations, and of course they do not have the 192 day 
calendar cycle. On page 36 mr Gann speak of the whole ball of wax 
right there, giving up the FA SO vibrations the true gravity center, 
and he also makes reference of the 2/3 or .666666666666 being the 
position between vibrations that takes it to the next vibration. On

--- PAGE 17 of 19 ---

page 37 mr Gann gives up one of the most Fantastic and failsafe ways 
to nail price levels, especially because he knew that price levels 
were preodained. on page 38 he makes a tremendous statement about 
the gravity center and he also uses the ROCK as his example, he also 
gave up the key in the magic word on page 38, where he tells you use 
the notes DO, RE, MI. On page 42 and 43 mr Gann talks about the Law 
of the Trines, the Forces of the Diatonic scale, Do, FA, LA, the 
positive negative and neutral principles of the Universe. Take a 
good look at the book, and what is all about, nothing but Time 
angles, and resistance levels, and gravity centers, but he tells you 
that you have to keep a record of all the activity to keep informed 
about levels from the past, as they are going to repeat, which is 
true, he fails to tell you that you only need to use the master time 
factor and apply the laws of vibration as you ride the rock and spin 
the wheel forward. By doing this you automatically dis-cover the 
price levels that must be shocked again as the wheel moves past the 
same point it has in the past, LOL, in the words of Russell 
Smith, "shocking isnt it", You the man Russell, you the man. Go to 
page 32 and read the sentence by Gann. "You must apply time cycles 
and time rules" he didnt you should, or it helps, he said 
you "must". But then he didnt tell you how to do that did he ?. Like 
I said before, there is not such thing as time, there is only rock 
rotation in longtitude and revolution. Imagine the grand architect 
holding billions of worlds, billions of life forms, billions of 
years, billions of galaxies in his I M A G E ination, all passing in 
his mind like a blink our eyes, and looks my way and says, "what 
time you got buddy", and I say why its 1:44 pm, and he says, "yeah 
right", lol. Take care you all 
 
 
Or Commander Cody says "never argue with a fool, cause he might be 
doing the same thing". The ever cryptic Gannster, most clever 
indeed, but perhaps not clever enough for the trained eye ball. Gann 
being schooled in the Kabbalistic, Hermetic, and Rosy Cross 
philosophy adopted the code and smybolic writing style of the priest 
craft throughout history. In Ganns magic word he is teaching you 
about sympathetic resonance as he speaks about your voice sending 
its wants and desires throughout the universe when you ring the 
sacred word "Jehovah", He tells you that this word rings "three" 
sylablles, and contains "seven" letters. Here he is trying to teach 
you the law of vibration with law of seven and three. The very laws 
you are learning in Cosmic Secrets. He speaks much of RADIO and how 
is it possible to send stuff thru air without being able to see it. 
Then he reminds you to not rely on your own EYE BALLZ so much, 
because that sensory organ is quite deceptive at times as to the 
truth of our universe. He speaks of illusions, pranic breathing, and 
mostly the law of correspondence, ie "as above so below". Now I know 
lots of you who read what eye right, say to yourselves "this 
harmonic guy kind of weird, talk kinda crazy, say goofy things", in 
your mind your saying to yourselves "can this 192 day calendar cycle 
be the master factor or is this guys antenna just seriously bent ?" 
How bout we bend the space time continuum and turn to page 192 in 
how to make profits, and read under time cycles, We look at Gann 
telling us to watch for the six and seven months for a change of 
trend, now this is kinda vague, but its not so vague when you 
consider the half point between six and seven months is very close

--- PAGE 18 of 19 ---

to 192 days. Now the Gann mann wrote a book called the wall street 
stock selector, now turn to page 192 in that book and I will quote 
the gannster here "CURTISS WRIGHT, THE TWO LEADING COMPANIES IN THE 
BUSINESS WERE WRIGHT AND CURTISS. CURTISS MADE EXTREME LOW IN AUGUST 
1921 WHEN IT SOLD AT 1 1/8. THEN ADVANCED TO EXTREME HIGH IN MAY, 
1928 WHEN IT SOLD AT 192 3/4. LATER IT WAS CONSOLIDATED WITH WRIGHT 
AEROPLANE COMPANY. THE WRIGHT BROTHERS BUILT THE FIRST AIRPLANE IN 
THE UNITED STATES AND MADE THE FIRST SUCCESSFUL FLIGHT" #$%$&*$@#! 
$$##@#^&%*^$#@##$%&&^^%%, are you friggin kiddin me, a reference on 
page 192 with a stock that went from 1 to 192, lol. Hmmmmmmmmm, who 
was these brothers who had eagles in there heart ?, but of course 
they was one of the first "tunnelers thru the air". Gann was in love 
with this stock called "radio", he talks about it with great 
affection saying it will be a leader again. This stock accurately 
describes the law of vibration. So Gann is very sympathetic with it, 
he speaks about it the way a sports better bets with his heart, 
knowing full well his team has no chance to win. You folks are going 
to make so much snap buying and selling these gravity centers your 
going to be surrounded with cement ponds and movie starz. 
 
Yes there are lines of force that are active during the market 
session. These are gotten from the Gann Grids, ie squares, I use the 
square of 192, however the 144 is also valid. The reasoning why they 
are valid is because we base everything on 24 hours of revolution, 
we only stack 24, 48, 96, 120, 144, 168, 192, and so into infinity, 
we never would use a fraction of a day, because that would throw off 
our price frequencies. The reasoning behind this is that we want to 
be dynamic and we want real time calculations, we want to ride the 
rock forward. For whatever market you like and whatever exchange it 
resides at is irrelavant. When that market started, at that point in 
time a mathematical signature was created, a vibration was set up 
that forever puts out a frequency that is based on 24 hour harmonics 
from that base vibration. Now back to those gann grids you asked 
about. Every day for the market session a section of the grid is 
active, this is what Gann said when these angles are "active", You 
can use the 144 grid as it is alignment with the 24 hour frequency, 
or you can use the 192 grid which is the master repeating time 
factor. Let me digress for a moment and tell you why the grids are 
as they are. Papus wrote a book called "the tarot of the bohemians" 
he says its the absolute key to occult science, he was a very 
learned initiate. He says that the gypsies used the tarot to divine 
the future with these cards, the reasoning behind these cards is 
they contain everything that is in the collective unconscious of 
mankind. They are archetypal symbology of the nature of everything. 
Now back to these gann grids, these grids are a combination of 
sacred geometry, they contain the enneagram, they contain circles, 
triangles, squares, they are a conglomaration of all these ideas and 
mathematical lines of force. In essence they are archetypal 
symbology of trading patterns, traders psyche for a given point in 
space and time. This is why nobody can use them correctly is for 
that reason, they cannnot set them in time correctly. Now the charts 
are so busy, that you can put one on a high or low and you see it 
square it out, but its mostly hit and miss. In my earlier post I 
spoke of how to use them in the fourth dimension of trading, how to 
mimick that idea. So to answer your question, Yes we have the law of 
octaves which is the price frequencies I show on the chart, the gann 
grids show the active lines, and you could draw them on the chart, I

--- PAGE 19 of 19 ---

just look at the section that is active and get an idea as to what 
lines are dominating, ist just a companion to the law of octaves. 
NOw on to your question about time and price squaring, yes price and 
time square up all the time, this happens in a number of different 
ways, the one i demonstrated was one where the price and time were 
in equilibrium, they were the same number, this happens often, but 
it also reverse the trend on other numbers and configurations, this 
is what Gann said when he said, I use mathematical sequencing, as 
there are relationships between points of squarings. On to your time 
question, yes the times of when the highs and lows can be gotten 
also, this is just done with the law of octaves. The time when 
something is going to happen is just another balancing act or center 
that is calculated from ....... I have given hints as to how this 
id done in my charts and posts. Reread my post and more will come to 
you. I have laid down the basic idead as to how to apply the law of 
vibration to a market, the more advanced theory and application will 
only be imparted on a one to one basis, where I can show you over 
many hours and charts how the price and time squares up, how to use 
the master charts, how to get the time balancing centers and more, 
in essence all that I know. Well now all this good vibrational talk 
gears me up for a listen to the beach boys classic rock tune. Light 
speed everybody

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 190851789-Using-Planetary-Harmonics-to-Find-Key-Reversals-the-Market.pdf
Total Pages: 8
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 8 ---

USING PLANETARY HARMONICS TO FIND KEY REVERSALS IN 
THE MARKET
By THOMAS LONG
The question of whether the positions and geometries of the planets of our solar system affect market 
action has been a long and hotly debated issue. In recent years, I have been perfecting a method by 
which I believe to have put the question to rest. The concept is simple, and started with the research of 
my mother, Jeanne Long, who in turn was following up on the research of W.D. Gann.
My methodology involves a constant survey of price vs. harmonic positions of the planets in the 
system. I do this simply by converting planetary positions into price, and noting the points in price 
where planetary geometries occur. As these geometries approach, the plotted positions of the planets 
involved approach one another in price (plotted in line format), thus creating an energetic price level. 
Oftentimes, a market will approach the position of the planetary geometry and respond to that price 
level with precision, creating a reversal. As I have become more and more familiar with the price 
patterns associated with market reactions to planetary harmonics, I have learned that the market is in a 
constant state of action and reaction to these price levels as they form and dissipate. The patterns can be 
related to those found in fractal geometry, which resembles a random walk until closely inspected. 
Indeed, the market is constantly expanding and contracting within the confines of the price-energy 
created by the planets, and this occurs on all time frames simultaneously, from a one-minute to a yearly 
basis.
In order to understand the concept of planetary harmonics, one must first understand the basic concept 
of the conversion of planetary position to price. This is a simple concept, and when plotted in price 
creates a system of "planetary lines". All examples in this article were generated by the Quick 
Harmonic Trader software. 
PLANETARY LINES
Planetary Lines is the term we use to describe the method we use to convert planetary energy into 
price. A planetary line is basically the position of a planet (in longitude) converted into price. The 
conversion is really quite simple. If a planet, for example, is at a longitude of 187 degrees on the wheel 
of 360 degrees (using 0 degrees Aries as the starting point), that would be equal to 1.87, 18.7, 187, 
1870, 18700, etc., depending on the price of the market you are looking at. For stocks trading in the 10-
100 dollar range, I assign a conversion value of 1 degree = .10 dollars, or 10 cents. For stocks trading 
above $100, I switch to a conversion value of 1 degree = $1.00. For a market trading in the 1000's, the 
value would switch to 1 degree = 10.00. 
Sometimes, a stock may be oscillating back and forth across 100 dollars, or an index oscillating across 
the 1000, or even 10000 level. When this occurs, I use the latest closing price to define the conversion 
value. In actuality, there is a condition I refer to as a "beta-shift" that occurs around these levels, where 
USING PLANETARY HARMONICS TO FIND KEY REVERSALS IN 
THE MARKET 
By THOMAS LONG 
The question of whether the positions and geometries of the planets of our solar system affect market 
action has been a long and hotly debated issue. In recent years, I have been perfecting a method by 
which I believe to have put the question to rest. The concept is simple, and started with the research of 
my mother, Jeanne Long, who in turn was following up on the research of W.D. Gann. 
My methodology involves a constant survey of price vs. harmonic positions of the planets in the 
system. I do this simply by converting planetary positions into price, and noting the points in price 
where planetary geometries occur. As these geometries approach, the plotted positions of the planets 
involved approach one another in price (plotted in line format), thus creating an energetic price level. 
Oftentimes, a market will approach the position of the planetary geometry and respond to that price 
level with precision, creating a reversal. As I have become more and more familiar with the price 
patterns associated with market reactions to planetary harmonics, I have learned that the market is in a 
constant state of action and reaction to these price levels as they form and dissipate. The patterns can be 
related to those found in fractal geometry, which resembles a random walk until closely inspected. 
Indeed, the market is constantly expanding and contracting within the confines of the price-energy 
created by the planets, and this occurs on all time frames simultaneously, from a one-minute to a yearly 
basis. 
In order to understand the concept of planetary harmonics, one must first understand the basic concept 
of the conversion of planetary position to price. This is a simple concept, and when plotted in price 
creates a system of "planetary lines". All examples in this article were generated by the Quick 
Harmonic Trader software. 
PLANETARY LINES 
Planetary Lines is the term we use to describe the method we use to convert planetary energy into 
price. A planetary line is basically the position of a planet (in longitude) converted into price. The 
conversion is really quite simple. If a planet, for example, is at a longitude of 187 degrees on the wheel 
of 360 degrees (using 0 degrees Aries as the starting point), that would be equal to 1.87, 18.7, 187, 
1870, 18700, etc., depending on the price of the market you are looking at. For stocks trading in the 10- 
100 dollar range, I assign a conversion value of 1 degree = .10 dollars, or 10 cents. For stocks trading 
above $100, I switch to a conversion value of 1 degree = $1.00. For a market trading in the 1000's, the 
value would switch to 1 degree = 10.00. 
Sometimes, a stock may be oscillating back and forth across 100 dollars, or an index oscillating across 
the 1000, or even 10000 level. When this occurs, I use the latest closing price to define the conversion 
value. In actuality, there is a condition I refer to as a "beta-shift" that occurs around these levels, where

--- PAGE 2 of 8 ---

price will temporarily respond to the conversion factors of the two different calculations, and it is 
usually not until the price moves above the 150-180 area (or 1.50-1.80, 1500-1800, 15000-18000 etc.) 
that price begins to respond specifically to the new conversion value. This is a more advanced concept, 
and we will not dwell on it here. 
For my analysis, I use only the geocentric positions of the planets (geocentric means as viewed from 
the Earth). I use the positions of all of the planets, and the Sun, and also the position of the Moon's 
Node (the point where the Moon crosses the plane of the ecliptic). I use the position on the Moon's 
Node simply because it is a very powerful point in space, and we do indeed find many major reversal 
which are associated with aspects of the planets to the position of the Moon's Node, one of which will 
be used as an example in this article.
Chart 1 shows the positions of Mars and the Moon's Node plotted in price, overlayed on the price chart 
for Teredyne, during the period of June-November of 1998. You will immediately note the point where 
the two lines crossed, at the low of the downtrend. This point is the graphic representation of a 
"conjunction" between Mars and the Moon's Node. A conjunction occurs when two elements are 
located visually at the same point in the sky (i.e. the same longitude). We are all familiar with a Solar 
Eclipse, which occurs when the Moon and the Sun are in conjunction, and have the same declination 
(declination is latitude position, or distance above or below the plane of the ecliptic). In short, a 
conjunction between two planets, or a planet and the Moon's Node, is the most powerful geometric 
relationship that can be produced. It can be said that conjunctions are responsible for a majority of 
major market reversals.
If we were to view the positions of the planets in a circular format for that day (October 8, 1998), we 
price will temporarily respond to the conversion factors of the two different calculations, and it is 
usually not until the price moves above the 150-180 area (or 1.50-1.80, 1500-1800, 15000-18000 etc.) 
that price begins to respond specifically to the new conversion value. This is a more advanced concept, 
and we will not dwell on it here. 
For my analysis, I use only the geocentric positions of the planets (geocentric means as viewed from 
the Earth). I use the positions of all of the planets, and the Sun, and also the position of the Moon's 
Node (the point where the Moon crosses the plane of the ecliptic). I use the position on the Moon's 
Node simply because it is a very powerful point in space, and we do indeed find many major reversal 
which are associated with aspects of the planets to the position of the Moon's Node, one of which will 
be used as an example in this article. 
Chart 1 shows the positions of Mars and the Moon's Node plotted in price, overlayed on the price chart 
for Teredyne, during the period of June-November of 1998. You will immediately note the point where 
the two lines crossed, at the low of the downtrend. This point is the graphic representation of a 
"conjunction" between Mars and the Moon's Node. A conjunction occurs when two elements are 
located visually at the same point in the sky (i.e. the same longitude). We are all familiar with a Solar 
Eclipse, which occurs when the Moon and the Sun are in conjunction, and have the same declination 
(declination is latitude position, or distance above or below the plane of the ecliptic). In short, a 
conjunction between two planets, or a planet and the Moon's Node, is the most powerful geometric 
relationship that can be produced. It can be said that conjunctions are responsible for a majority of 
major market reversals. 
ES Teradyne Daily 30-30 11/10/1998 
cl 
weal 
ml 
CHART 1 
(OOS) Mars Price Line G 360 NO 
[Oli] North T.Node Price line G360NO ee 
p See 
Sn 
Beemer) 
ce 
ee 
eee L re 
L 24-000) 
| 
4 
att 
el 
ae Peres 
. 
Eeetemers) 
NORTH 
me 
NODE LINE 
cee 
wee 
HL 
we ee 16-00 
MARS LINE| 
LINE 
+ 
eee 
A 
CONJUNCTION) 
LL se 
POINT 
: 
SULCK HARE 
6-00 
Tereplate Finest ht remme 
e/a/1998 
9/1/1998 
1o/1/1998 
11/2/1998 
If we were to view the positions of the planets in a circular format for that day (October 8, 1998), we

--- PAGE 3 of 8 ---

would have seen that Mars and the Moon's Node were both in the same position, at approximately 150 
degrees on the wheel (150.6 to be precise). For a stock such as Teradyne, who's price range is between 
$10 and $100, the conversion factor is 1 degree = .10 dollars, so the position of the conjunction 
between Mars and the Moon's Node can be easily calculated, 150 x .10 = 15.0. So, the critical price 
level on that day was $15.00, which was, in fact the exact low for Teradyne on that day. As you can 
see, this low marked the beginning of a very powerful rally, which is the pattern that I would have 
expected as a result of this precise correlation of price to planetary position. I bought Teradyne on the 
first technical confirmation of a reversing trend, using my favorite technical indicators, initiating a 
position on the open two days later.
You will notice that each line has its own particular angle, or speed. Mars has a much faster orbit than 
The Moon's Node, and so its angle is greater. Each planet moves at it's own speed, thus all lines have a 
different angle.
Now, you might ask, if the planet's positions are plotted from 0 to 360 degrees, and 1 degree = 10 
cents, then how can a planet's position be plotted above $36.00? We simply add 360 degrees to the 
position to get to the higher levels. The next chart (Chart 2) will clarify this simply method. We have 
expanded the scale of the chart up to $95.00. You will notice now that there are three of each of the 
lines showing on the chart. The actual conjunction between Mars and The North Node occurred at 150 
degrees on the wheel of 360. The lowest crossover point on this chart is at that point, or $15.00. The 
next higher crossover point is 360 degrees, or 36 dollars higher, at $51.00. The next is 36 dollars 
higher, at $87.00. This is just simple math. As an analogy, you might remember the chess board that 
Captain Kirk and Spock used in Star Trek. It had many transparent levels of play. This is much the 
same concept, the planets play on many different wheels simultaneously, each representing a higher 
multiple of 360. 
It would be easier if all stocks and other markets traded constantly between 0 and 36 dollars, but they 
don't, so we had to formulate this simple translation. Like many simple ideas, the proof is in the 
pudding, and in this case, the simple answer works. In this way, position can be translated to price at 
any level. Here's another example. If we have an aspect that occurs at 187 degrees on the wheel, that 
would equal 18.70. You would find higher aspect points in price at 18.70 + 36.00 = 54.70, and the next 
at 18.70 + 36.00 + 36.00 = 90.70, and the next at 18.70 + 36.00 + 36.00 + 36.00 = 126.70. 
would have seen that Mars and the Moon's Node were both in the same position, at approximately 150 
degrees on the wheel (150.6 to be precise). For a stock such as Teradyne, who's price range is between 
$10 and $100, the conversion factor is 1 degree = .10 dollars, so the position of the conjunction 
between Mars and the Moon's Node can be easily calculated, 150 x .10 = 15.0. So, the critical price 
level on that day was $15.00, which was, in fact the exact low for Teradyne on that day. As you can 
see, this low marked the beginning of a very powerful rally, which is the pattern that I would have 
expected as a result of this precise correlation of price to planetary position. I bought Teradyne on the 
first technical confirmation of a reversing trend, using my favorite technical indicators, initiating a 
position on the open two days later. 
You will notice that each line has its own particular angle, or speed. Mars has a much faster orbit than 
The Moon's Node, and so its angle is greater. Each planet moves at it's own speed, thus all lines have a 
different angle. 
Now, you might ask, if the planet's positions are plotted from 0 to 360 degrees, and 1 degree = 10 
cents, then how can a planet's position be plotted above $36.00? We simply add 360 degrees to the 
position to get to the higher levels. The next chart (Chart 2) will clarify this simply method. We have 
expanded the scale of the chart up to $95.00. You will notice now that there are three of each of the 
lines showing on the chart. The actual conjunction between Mars and The North Node occurred at 150 
degrees on the wheel of 360. The lowest crossover point on this chart is at that point, or $15.00. The 
next higher crossover point is 360 degrees, or 36 dollars higher, at $51.00. The next is 36 dollars 
higher, at $87.00. This is just simple math. As an analogy, you might remember the chess board that 
Captain Kirk and Spock used in Star Trek. It had many transparent levels of play. This is much the 
same concept, the planets play on many different wheels simultaneously, each representing a higher 
multiple of 360. 
It would be easier if all stocks and other markets traded constantly between 0 and 36 dollars, but they 
don't, so we had to formulate this simple translation. Like many simple ideas, the proof is in the 
pudding, and in this case, the simple answer works. In this way, position can be translated to price at 
any level. Here's another example. If we have an aspect that occurs at 187 degrees on the wheel, that 
would equal 18.70. You would find higher aspect points in price at 18.70 + 36.00 = 54.70, and the next 
at 18.70 + 36.00 + 36.00 = 90.70, and the next at 18.70 + 36.00 + 36.00 + 36.00 = 126.70.

--- PAGE 4 of 8 ---

The next convention that we need to explain is the concept of "Mirror Lines". This is another concept 
that Jeanne and I discovered one day over coffee. We were musing about the fact that markets in 
uptrend usually follow the trajectory of a particular planetary line. But what about markets in 
downtrend. How could we define these trends when all planetary lines move upward? The answer, 
again, was simple. We simply inverted the positions of the planets across the 0 line to create downward 
moving lines. Here's how it works:
If a planet is at 187 degrees on the wheel, it's Mirror is at 360 – 187 = 173.
A planet at 98 degrees would have a mirror position of 360 – 98 = 262.
In this way, as a planet moves forward one degree of longitude, its mirror moves backward 1 degree, 
and the plotted line "mirrors" the actual plotted position of the planet. Let's look at a chart of Novellus 
(Chart 3). We will add two Mars lines, one which plots its "regular" position, and the other which plots 
its "mirror" position. We will now see Mars lines travelling upward and downward. Notice how the 
downward moving Mars line defined the downtrend on this stock for many months. Now what is it that 
stopped that downtrend?
BS Teradyne Daily 30-30 11/10/1998 
Bill 
ES 
4 
as 
SUICK HARMONIC TRADER fc) PAS Tne. 
| 
NN 
1-00 
Wn cisga) Bsc zooeaes ack ssa mci 
—— =< 
[011] North T.Node Priga Lin ceomeritty 
[i 
CHART 2 
® 
CONJUNCTION 
POINTS ARE 
a 
REBEATED UP 
p FOG 
ON EACH 
HIGHER WHEEL 
OF 360, AT 
POINTS MARKED 
ee 
L 51-00 
11-00 
Template - rina}the tee: 
By/S/ 1998 
o/ 1/1998 
1oy/ 1/1998 
11/2/1998 
The next convention that we need to explain is the concept of "Mirror Lines". This is another concept 
that Jeanne and I discovered one day over coffee. We were musing about the fact that markets in 
uptrend usually follow the trajectory of a particular planetary line. But what about markets in 
downtrend. How could we define these trends when all planetary lines move upward? The answer, 
again, was simple. We simply inverted the positions of the planets across the 0 line to create downward 
moving lines. Here's how it works: 
If a planet is at 187 degrees on the wheel, it's Mirror is at 360 — 187 = 173. 
A planet at 98 degrees would have a mirror position of 360 — 98 = 262. 
In this way, as a planet moves forward one degree of longitude, its mirror moves backward | degree, 
and the plotted line "mirrors" the actual plotted position of the planet. Let's look at a chart of Novellus 
(Chart 3). We will add two Mars lines, one which plots its "regular" position, and the other which plots 
its "mirror" position. We will now see Mars lines travelling upward and downward. Notice how the 
downward moving Mars line defined the downtrend on this stock for many months. Now what is it that 
stopped that downtrend?

--- PAGE 5 of 8 ---

Again, we will add the planetary line for the Moon's Node, and this time we will make it a mirror line. 
We will also remove the "regular" Mars line, so that we are now viewing the "mirror" position of the 
conjunction between Mars and the Moon's Node. We can calculate the position of this mirror point by 
hand very simply. We know that the conjunction occurred at 150 degrees on the 360 wheel, so we 
simply invert this position, or subtract it from 360: 360 – 150 = 210. So, we know without viewing the 
chart that the mirror position of the Mars-Node conjunction was at 210, or $21.00.
Our next example chart (Chart 4) shows both the Mars and North T. Node Price Lines at the mirror 
settings. Note that this stock reversed on the same date, October 8, 1998, at the point where these 
mirror lines crossed, or $21.00. The low price on that day was exactly $21.00. I purchased Novellus 
and Teradyne on the same signal, from a reversal on the same planetary aspect.
ES Novellus Daily 68-03 1713/1999 
ln 
ms )-00 
COICRPARMORIC TRADER CARS Irie.” ” 
CHART 3 
aie 
[005] Mars Price Line G 360 
0 
TOE) Ware Price Line & B60 Dt 
re 
MARS MIRROR] 
. ~~. 
ee ee eee ee eee -L 60-00 
LINE 
\ 
i 
MARS LINE 
nee 
eee 
7 
aa 
-- +e 
Uf} >... 
-f so-00 
-L 40-00 
A (i 
ee ee 
4 ele 
-L 30-00 
MARS MIRROR 
iy yt | 
ooo, 
EINE ee 
in 
ee ee 
-L 20-00 
MARS LINE 
10-00 
12998 
541996 
AAs 
An ggg 
Again, we will add the planetary line for the Moon's Node, and this time we will make it a mirror line. 
We will also remove the "regular" Mars line, so that we are now viewing the "mirror" position of the 
conjunction between Mars and the Moon's Node. We can calculate the position of this mirror point by 
hand very simply. We know that the conjunction occurred at 150 degrees on the 360 wheel, so we 
simply invert this position, or subtract it from 360: 360 — 150 = 210. So, we know without viewing the 
chart that the mirror position of the Mars-Node conjunction was at 210, or $21.00. 
Our next example chart (Chart 4) shows both the Mars and North T. Node Price Lines at the mirror 
settings. Note that this stock reversed on the same date, October 8, 1998, at the point where these 
mirror lines crossed, or $21.00. The low price on that day was exactly $21.00. I purchased Novellus 
and Teradyne on the same signal, from a reversal on the same planetary aspect.

--- PAGE 6 of 8 ---

Now you can see how stocks and other markets which are trading at a wide variety of prices can all 
react to the same planetary energy at the same time. 
ASPECTS AND HARMONICS
A geometric relationship between two planets is called an "aspect", and when we refer to Harmonics, 
we are talking about aspects. The concept of planetary lines will allow you to see not only 
conjunctions, but any aspect between two or more planetary elements converted to price. We do this by 
looking at harmonic divisions of a planet's position, and plotting those harmonic divisions in price. We 
have already explained how to convert a planet's position to price, and this allows you to plot the 
positions of one or more planets on a price chart, and to visually see the points where those planet's 
paths intersect. These points of intersection are the points where the planets you are viewing are in 
conjunction with one another. This is an aspect on the first harmonic. The first harmonic is simply 360 / 
1, which is equal to 360. When you view a planet with the setting of 360, you are viewing it's 
ACTUAL position on the wheel from 0 to 360 degrees. Moving inward through the divisions of the 
wheel:
The second harmonic is 360 / 2 = 180.
The third harmonic is 360 / 3 = 120.
The fourth harmonic is 360 / 4 = 90.
Most major reversals can be attributed to one of the first four harmonics. Planets make conjunctions to 
one another only seldomly. However, they also make other important aspects to one another on a more 
BB Novellus Daily 68-03 1/13/1999 
[QUICK HARMONIC TRADER 
WAS 
Ine 
re so 
(005) Mars Price Line G 360 4 O 
[014] North T.Node Price Line G 360 ¥ 0 
CHART 4 
ge 
[or 
- 60-00 
- 50-00 
L 40-00 
a 
tn 
ee 
ee 
cee 
L 30-00 
MARS 
i 
LINE 
a, er 
ee 
CONJUNCTION 
POINT 
10-00 
1/24 998 
544998 
o4998 
144999 
Now you can see how stocks and other markets which are trading at a wide variety of prices can all 
react to the same planetary energy at the same time. 
ASPECTS AND HARMONICS 
A geometric relationship between two planets is called an "aspect", and when we refer to Harmonics, 
we are talking about aspects. The concept of planetary lines will allow you to see not only 
conjunctions, but any aspect between two or more planetary elements converted to price. We do this by 
looking at harmonic divisions of a planet's position, and plotting those harmonic divisions in price. We 
have already explained how to convert a planet's position to price, and this allows you to plot the 
positions of one or more planets on a price chart, and to visually see the points where those planet's 
paths intersect. These points of intersection are the points where the planets you are viewing are in 
conjunction with one another. This is an aspect on the first harmonic. The first harmonic is simply 360 / 
1, which is equal to 360. When you view a planet with the setting of 360, you are viewing it's 
ACTUAL position on the wheel from 0 to 360 degrees. Moving inward through the divisions of the 
wheel: 
The second harmonic is 360 / 2 = 180. 
The third harmonic is 360 /3 = 120. 
The fourth harmonic is 360 / 4 = 90. 
Most major reversals can be attributed to one of the first four harmonics. Planets make conjunctions to 
one another only seldomly. However, they also make other important aspects to one another on a more

--- PAGE 7 of 8 ---

regular basis. The most important of these aspects are: 
●
The opposition: This is where two planets are directly opposite to one another on the wheel. If 
two planets are in opposition geocentrically, they are located on either side of the earth out in 
space. This is a second harmonic aspect.
●
The trine: This is where two planets are located 120 degrees from one another on the wheel, 
creating a triangle pattern. This is a third harmonic aspect.
●
The square: This is where two planets are located 90 degrees from one another on the wheel, 
creating a square pattern. This is a fourth harmonic aspect.
The graphic below (Example 1), illustrates these aspects in wheel format.
Once you understand the correlation between aspects and harmonics, you can jump to the next step of 
harmonic price analysis, which is finding the price points that relate to aspects other than conjunctions. 
I will explain briefly. If we want to find the second harmonic position of a planet in price, we can 
simply divide the distance between the planetary price lines by 2. In effect, we are adding 180 degrees 
to the planet's position to get the position of that planet on the opposite side of the wheel.
regular basis. The most important of these aspects are: 
@ The opposition: This is where two planets are directly opposite to one another on the wheel. If 
two planets are in opposition geocentrically, they are located on either side of the earth out in 
space. This is a second harmonic aspect. 
@ The trine: This is where two planets are located 120 degrees from one another on the wheel, 
creating a triangle pattern. This is a third harmonic aspect. 
@ The square: This is where two planets are located 90 degrees from one another on the wheel, 
creating a square pattern. This is a fourth harmonic aspect. 
The graphic below (Example 1), illustrates these aspects in wheel format. 
\ 
\. 180° 
_ 
ww 90° -¥. 
eo 
The SOU ABE 
OPPOSITION 
The TRINE 
fe 
EXAMPLE 1 
Once you understand the correlation between aspects and harmonics, you can jump to the next step of 
harmonic price analysis, which is finding the price points that relate to aspects other than conjunctions. 
I will explain briefly. If we want to find the second harmonic position of a planet in price, we can 
simply divide the distance between the planetary price lines by 2. In effect, we are adding 180 degrees 
to the planet's position to get the position of that planet on the opposite side of the wheel.

--- PAGE 8 of 8 ---

Chart 5 shows the second harmonic Uranus and Neptune lines on Bank of America Corp. (BAC). Note 
that Uranus and Neptune's current positions on the wheel of 360 are both in the area of 300-315 
degrees, which translates to 30.00 – 31.50. The next higher first harmonic set of Uranus and Neptune 
lines can be located by simply adding 360 to this range, which leaves us with the 660-675 area, or 
66.00 - 67.50. You will see that BAC has registered two significant highs on this higher set of lines 
over the past year. 
You can then see that we have taken the midpoint between the two first harmonic positions of Uranus 
and Neptune, by simply adding 180 (half of the wheel), to get the second harmonic set of lines in the 
area of 480-495, or 48.00-49.50. This 2nd harmonic support channel has defined a couple of key lows. 
Price often expands harmonically, and by understanding the nature of the geometry of the system and 
applying that knowledge to price action, we are able to glean some very useful information from price 
action. 
This knowledge creates many opportunities for profitable trades. For my own trading system, I use an 
advanced system of analysis that includes overlaying many harmonic planetary systems onto each price 
chart to determine the trend. I also use the analysis of the birth (incorporation) charts of different 
companies to project whether a particular company has positive or negative influence. I then combine 
all of these tools with tested technical systems to monitor my trades. This rigorous approach to the 
market has paid off with steady returns over the years, and my methods continue to be fine-tuned 
through practice. To this date, I have not found a more precise method of price analysis than planetary 
price harmonics. Further, I believe that this type of analysis will ultimately be accepted by the entire 
trading community as a valid measure of price action.
Pf [BAC] Daily 46.75 12/17/1999 
w= 
CHART 5 
FIRST HARMONIC 
[008] Uranus Price Line G 150 NO 
URANUS AND 
[00g] Neptune Price Line G 150 N 0 
NEPTUNE LINES 
Lig we 
SS eee 
- 70.00 
on 
E 
v , 
cree 
meh 
a. Ll? an 
Lh, ye 
ee 
1h 
ee L 60.00 
+ 
L son 
Sez 
fp 
He My 
4575 
SECOND HARMONIC 
Doe eee 
URANUS AND =| 
| 
|FIRSTHARMONIC] 
| 
a 
NEPTUNE LINES 
URANUS AND 
, 
NEPTUNE LINES 
ee 
- 0.00 
QUICK HARMONIC TRADER (co) PAS Ine. 
20.00 
Template det 
HARMONIC 944999 
1044999 
1AM 999 
1244999 
Chart 5 shows the second harmonic Uranus and Neptune lines on Bank of America Corp. (BAC). Note 
that Uranus and Neptune's current positions on the wheel of 360 are both in the area of 300-315 
degrees, which translates to 30.00 — 31.50. The next higher first harmonic set of Uranus and Neptune 
lines can be located by simply adding 360 to this range, which leaves us with the 660-675 area, or 
66.00 - 67.50. You will see that BAC has registered two significant highs on this higher set of lines 
over the past year. 
You can then see that we have taken the midpoint between the two first harmonic positions of Uranus 
and Neptune, by simply adding 180 (half of the wheel), to get the second harmonic set of lines in the 
area of 480-495, or 48.00-49.50. This 2nd harmonic support channel has defined a couple of key lows. 
Price often expands harmonically, and by understanding the nature of the geometry of the system and 
applying that knowledge to price action, we are able to glean some very useful information from price 
action. 
This knowledge creates many opportunities for profitable trades. For my own trading system, I use an 
advanced system of analysis that includes overlaying many harmonic planetary systems onto each price 
chart to determine the trend. I also use the analysis of the birth (incorporation) charts of different 
companies to project whether a particular company has positive or negative influence. I then combine 
all of these tools with tested technical systems to monitor my trades. This rigorous approach to the 
market has paid off with steady returns over the years, and my methods continue to be fine-tuned 
through practice. To this date, I have not found a more precise method of price analysis than planetary 
price harmonics. Further, I believe that this type of analysis will ultimately be accepted by the entire 
trading community as a valid measure of price action.

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 278631958-109751673-Sephariel-The-Numbers-Book-pdf.pdf
Total Pages: 67
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 67 ---

DEDICATED TO THE MEMBERS OF WHEELS 
IN THE SKY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.groups.yahoo.com/group/wheelsinthesky
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“A forum one can learn about Gann and other famous market forecasters”. 
 
DEDICATED TO THE MEMBERS OF WHEELS 
IN THE SKY 
www.eroups.yahoo.com/group/wheelsinthesky 
‘*A forum one can learn about Gann and other famous market forecasters’.

--- PAGE 2 of 67 ---

THE SCIENCE OF NUMEROLOGY 
 
 
THE 
NUMBERS BOOK 
By 
Sepbarial 
 
Author of 
“The Kabala of Numbers” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LONDON 
W. FOULSHAM & CO. LTD. 
NEW YORK – TORONTO – CAPE TOWN – SYDNEY 
THE SCIENCE OF NUMEROLOGY 
THE 
NUMBERS BOOK 
By 
Sepbarial 
Author of 
“The Kabala of Numbers” 
LONDON 
W. FOULSHAM & CO. LTD. 
NEW YORK — TORONTO — CAPE TOWN — SYDNEY

--- PAGE 3 of 67 ---

2
 
 
PREFACE 
 
  Numerology is a science which has survived the test of thousands of years. The 
learned Ancients discovered the co-relationship of numbers, the planetary influences 
over life on this earth and the ordered planning of the universe. 
  In modern times, no one has made a greater study of this science than Sepharial. 
His earlier works on the subject were closely allied to Astrology but the present 
volume is written so that those without any exposition of numerology in every aspect 
of daily life. 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Chapter                                      
 
 
Page 
I    
 
 
The Mysticism of Numbers    
 
 
3 
II    
 
 
The Hebrew Kabala                       10 
III   
 
 
Names and Numbers                      15 
IV   
 
 
Numbers and Character       
 
 
21 
V    
 
 
Your Love and Marriage Number   
 
29 
VI   
 
 
Your Lucky and Money Numbers    
 
39 
VII   
 
 
Your Number of Health          
 
49 
VIII   
 
 
Colour and Numbers         
 
 
56 
IX   
 
 
Numbers and Speculation      
 
 
59 
Football Pools            
 
 
 
59 
Stocks and Shares       
 
 
 
62 
Horse and Greyhound Racing              64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PREFACE 
Numerology is a science which has survived the test of thousands of years. The 
learned Ancients discovered the co-relationship of numbers, the planetary influences 
over life on this earth and the ordered planning of the universe. 
In modern times, no one has made a greater study of this science than Sepharial. 
His earlier works on the subject were closely allied to Astrology but the present 
volume is written so that those without any exposition of numerology in every aspect 
of daily life. 
CONTENTS 
Chapter 
Page 
I 
The Mysticism of Numbers 
3 
vol 
The Hebrew Kabala 
10 
Tt 
Names and Numbers 
15 
IV 
Numbers and Character 
21 
V 
Your Love and Marriage Number 
29 
VI 
Your Lucky and Money Numbers 
39 
Vil 
Your Number of Health 
49 
Vial 
Colour and Numbers 
56 
IX 
Numbers and Speculation 
59 
Football Pools 
59 
Stocks and Shares 
62 
Horse and Greyhound Racing 
64

--- PAGE 4 of 67 ---

3
CHAPTER ONE 
 
THE MYSTICISM OF NUMBERS 
 
  The philosophers of ancient Greece believed that numbers possessed some 
mysterious power independent of their arithmetical significance.  
  Thomas Taylor in his translation of Iamblicus’ Life of Pythagoras said: “ The 
Pythagoreans received from the theology of Orpheus the principles of intelligible and 
intellectual numbers; they assigned them an abundant progression, and extended their 
dominion.” 
  Hence that proverb was peculiar to the Pythagoreans that all things are assimilated 
to numbers. Pythagoras, therefore, in the Sacred Discourse clearly stated: ”Number is 
the ruler of forms and ideas, and is the cause of gods and demons.” 
  Numbers are used to express quantitative values in relation to Unity, which of itself 
is the first expression of Zero. From Zero all numbers proceed and into Zero they are 
all resolved again. Thus it comes about that the digits from first to last are represented 
by the number 10, the Alpha and Omega of all enumeration. If we set out the digits in 
their order we find that they present to us a very curious set of relation, thus: 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 . 
 
   
bringing the first and last of these series together in order successively, we have— 
1 and 9 equals 10 
2 and 8 equals 10, 
3 and 7 equals 10, 
4 and 6 equals 10, 
leaving behind the characteristic number 5, which represents the human species with 
its five avenues of sensation, its five digits or fingers, its five peduncles or toes, and 
its five great Races. This number was held in great veneration by the ancients, and we 
find that among the Chinese and among the Hindus there is a tendency to count by 
fives. Thus the Chinese have the “Wu Hing” or five useful things were clay, wood, 
metal, fire and water. These were ruled by five planets. 
Saturn ruled earth or clay. 
Jupiter ruled wood. 
Venus ruled metal. 
Mars ruled fire. 
Mercury ruled water. 
So they called the names off the planets the Earth Star, the Wood Star, the Metal Star, 
and so on. The five precepts were filial love, loyalty, marital fidelity, obedience and 
sincerity, as regulating the relations between parents and their children, the rulers and 
CHAPTER ONE 
THE MYSTICISM OF NUMBERS 
The philosophers of ancient Greece believed that numbers possessed some 
mysterious power independent of their arithmetical significance. 
Thomas Taylor in his translation of Iamblicus’ Life of Pythagoras said: “ The 
Pythagoreans received from the theology of Orpheus the principles of intelligible and 
intellectual numbers; they assigned them an abundant progression, and extended their 
dominion.” 
Hence that proverb was peculiar to the Pythagoreans that all things are assimilated 
to numbers. Pythagoras, therefore, in the Sacred Discourse clearly stated: ° Number is 
the ruler of forms and ideas, and is the cause of gods and demons.” 
Numbers are used to express quantitative values in relation to Unity, which of itself 
is the first expression of Zero. From Zero all numbers proceed and into Zero they are 
all resolved again. Thus it comes about that the digits from first to last are represented 
by the number 10, the Alpha and Omega of all enumeration. If we set out the digits in 
their order we find that they present to us a very curious set of relation, thus: 
12345 67 8 9. 
bringing the first and last of these series together in order successively, we have— 
1 and 9 equals 10 
2 and 8 equals 10, 
3 and 7 equals 10, 
4 and 6 equals 10, 
leaving behind the characteristic number 5, which represents the human species with 
its five avenues of sensation, its five digits or fingers, its five peduncles or toes, and 
its five great Races. This number was held in great veneration by the ancients, and we 
find that among the Chinese and among the Hindus there is a tendency to count by 
fives. Thus the Chinese have the “Wu Hing” or five useful things were clay, wood, 
metal, fire and water. These were ruled by five planets. 
Saturn ruled earth or clay. 
Jupiter ruled wood. 
Venus ruled metal. 
Mars ruled fire. 
Mercury ruled water. 
So they called the names off the planets the Earth Star, the Wood Star, the Metal Star, 
and so on. The five precepts were filial love, loyalty, marital fidelity, obedience and 
sincerity, as regulating the relations between parents and their children, the rulers and 
3

--- PAGE 5 of 67 ---

4
the people, husbands and wives, masters and servants, man and friend. The five sorts 
of punishment were by fines, the rod, the scourge, banishment, and death. 
  Thus five may be said to stand for humanity and for human relations, man standings 
as it were in the middle ground of the manifest and unmanifest worlds, and in a 
measure cognising both the material and immaterial worlds by sense and thought, 
himself beings the embodiment of all, an epitome of the universe, a veritable 
microcosm. 
The total of the digits 1 to 9 is 45, or nine times 5. 
The total of the odd numbers is 25, or five times 5. 
The total of the even numbers is 20, or four times 5. 
  But each of the numbers comprised in the series has its traditional value as a 
symbol, and these symbols are associated with the Sun and members of solar system. 
  Note: This series is the astrological series or unit system which should not be 
confused with the Kabalistic series based on the Hebrew alphabet of twenty-two 
letters, which is described in Chapter 2. 
  In the Astrological series or unit system the symbol        
ONE 
is the symbol of the manifest Deity, who came forth from the Abyss of Nothingness, 
or Infinitude. It is the symbol of the Sun, the light that shone in the darkness of the 
world’s great night an became the source of all revelation, of heat and light, of 
wisdom and love, the vortex centre of the universe of worlds, the archetype. Hence it 
is symbolized as a circle with a point in the centre. 
Thus: Q. 
  It is the beginning; that by which all the rest of the nine numbers are created. The 
basis of all numbers is ONE; the basis of all life is ONE. This number represents all 
that is creative, individual and positive. It stands for force, boldness and activity as 
well as for powers of organizing and executive ability. 
TWO 
is the symbol of relativity, antithesis, witness, and confirmation. It denotes the 
binomial and “pairs of opposites,” as positive and negative, active and passive, male 
and female, light and dark, etc., in relation to Unity, which stands for the first named 
of these, two standing for the second of them. It represents the dualism of manifested 
life, as God and Nature, Spirit and Matter, Osiris and Isis, and their interrelation. It 
denotes the Law of Alternation in natural operations. It embodies the idea of 
procreation, fruition, combination, relationship of opposites, the two conditions: 
manifest and unmanifest; the explicit and implicit; buying and selling. It is 
symbolized by the Moon: R   . 
  The moon is related to two numbers, of which the number “2” gives the negative 
the people, husbands and wives, masters and servants, man and friend. The five sorts 
of punishment were by fines, the rod, the scourge, banishment, and death. 
Thus five may be said to stand for humanity and for human relations, man standings 
as it were in the middle ground of the manifest and unmanifest worlds, and in a 
measure cognising both the material and immaterial worlds by sense and thought, 
himself beings the embodiment of all, an epitome of the universe, a veritable 
microcosm. 
The total of the digits 1 to 9 is 45, or nine times 5. 
The total of the odd numbers is 25, or five times 5. 
The total of the even numbers is 20, or four times 5. 
But each of the numbers comprised in the series has its traditional value as a 
symbol, and these symbols are associated with the Sun and members of solar system. 
Note: This series is the astrological series or unit system which should not be 
confused with the Kabalistic series based on the Hebrew alphabet of twenty-two 
letters, which is described in Chapter 2. 
In the Astrological series or unit system the symbol 
ONE 
is the symbol of the manifest Deity, who came forth from the Abyss of Nothingness, 
or Infinitude. It is the symbol of the Sun, the light that shone in the darkness of the 
world’s great night an became the source of all revelation, of heat and light, of 
wisdom and love, the vortex centre of the universe of worlds, the archetype. Hence it 
is symbolized as a circle with a point in the centre. 
Thus: Q. 
It is the beginning; that by which all the rest of the nine numbers are created. The 
basis of all numbers is ONE; the basis of all life is ONE. This number represents all 
that is creative, individual and positive. It stands for force, boldness and activity as 
well as for powers of organizing and executive ability. 
Two 
is the symbol of relativity, antithesis, witness, and confirmation. It denotes the 
binomial and “pairs of opposites,” as positive and negative, active and passive, male 
and female, light and dark, etc., in relation to Unity, which stands for the first named 
of these, two standing for the second of them. It represents the dualism of manifested 
life, as God and Nature, Spirit and Matter, Osiris and Isis, and their interrelation. It 
denotes the Law of Alternation in natural operations. It embodies the idea of 
procreation, fruition, combination, relationship of opposites, the two conditions: 
manifest and unmanifest; the explicit and implicit; buying and selling. It is 
symbolized by the Moon: R 
The moon is related to two numbers, of which the number “2” gives the negative

--- PAGE 6 of 67 ---

5
vibration. This can be understood as being the position when the Moon is conjunction 
with the sun, i.e. New Moon, and the Moon throwing no reflected light upon the earth. 
This number denotes relativity, vacillation and change. 
  The moon also stands for form and the growth of form and is the female counterpart 
of Number One, the two together creating the third number. 
THREE 
is the trilogy of life, Substance and Intelligence, applicable to Divine BEING; of Force, 
Matter, and Consciousness, applicable to natural EXISTENCE. Creation, preservation 
and resolution. Father, mother and child --- Osiris, Isis and Horus --- God, Nature and 
Man. The three dimensions of space. The three postulates --- thought, the thinker and 
the thing. The three parts of Time --- past, present and future. Thus it denotes in itself 
the idea of extension in both time and space, and stands for penetration, procedure and 
pervasion. It is symbolized by the planet Jupiter, a planet which plays a most 
important role both in astrology and in all systems of numerology. It is the beginning 
of what may be termed one of the main lines of force that runs right through all the 
numbers from one to nine. It has a special relation to every third number in the series 
such as three, six, nine. These numbers added together in any direction produce a nine 
as their final digit. 
                       
3 + 6 + 9 = 18 = 9 
                       
6 + 9 + 3 = 18 = 9 
                       
9 + 3 + 6 = 18 = 9 
                       
--  --  --  --  -- 
Total of each column     
18  18  18  54  27 
Reduced to unit =         
9   9   9   9   9 
  The number also stands for inclusion, comprehension, understanding, judgment; for 
increase, fecundity and propagation; thus and for self-expansion, the harvesting of the 
fruits of action, reward, equity, justice. Reproduction in the material world. 
Fatherhood, familism. By extension of self it becomes a symbol of sympathy, 
benevolence, charity, philanthropy, etc.’ and, by reflection, of joy, good fortune, and 
plenty. It is denoted by the planet Jupiter: V 
 
 
 
FOUR 
is the number of reality and concretion. Solids, the cube or square, the cross. Physical 
laws, logic, reason. Appearance, physiognomy, science, cognition. Segmentation, 
partition, order, classification. The Wheel of Fortune, the Wheel of Ixion, the Wheel 
of the Law, sequence, enumeration. The intellect which discerns between the 
vibration. This can be understood as being the position when the Moon is conjunction 
with the sun, i.e. New Moon, and the Moon throwing no reflected light upon the earth. 
This number denotes relativity, vacillation and change. 
The moon also stands for form and the growth of form and is the female counterpart 
of Number One, the two together creating the third number. 
THREE 
is the trilogy of life, Substance and Intelligence, applicable to Divine BEING; of Force, 
Matter, and Consciousness, applicable to natural EXISTENCE. Creation, preservation 
and resolution. Father, mother and child --- Osiris, Isis and Horus --- God, Nature and 
Man. The three dimensions of space. The three postulates --- thought, the thinker and 
the thing. The three parts of Time --- past, present and future. Thus it denotes in itself 
the idea of extension in both time and space, and stands for penetration, procedure and 
pervasion. It is symbolized by the planet Jupiter, a planet which plays a most 
important role both in astrology and in all systems of numerology. It is the beginning 
of what may be termed one of the main lines of force that runs right through all the 
numbers from one to nine. It has a special relation to every third number in the series 
such as three, six, nine. These numbers added together in any direction produce a nine 
as their final digit. 
3+6+9=18=9 
6+9+3=18=9 
9+3+6=18=9 
Total of each column 
18 18 18 54 27 
Reduced to unit = 
9 
9 
9 
9 
9 
The number also stands for inclusion, comprehension, understanding, judgment; for 
increase, fecundity and propagation; thus and for self-expansion, the harvesting of the 
fruits of action, reward, equity, justice. Reproduction in the material world. 
Fatherhood, familism. By extension of self it becomes a symbol of sympathy, 
benevolence, charity, philanthropy, etc.’ and, by reflection, of joy, good fortune, and 
plenty. It is denoted by the planet Jupiter: V 
FOUR 
is the number of reality and concretion. Solids, the cube or square, the cross. Physical 
laws, logic, reason. Appearance, physiognomy, science, cognition. Segmentation, 
partition, order, classification. The Wheel of Fortune, the Wheel of Ixion, the Wheel 
of the Law, sequence, enumeration. The intellect which discerns between the

--- PAGE 7 of 67 ---

6
noumenal and phenomenal, thought and perception. Discernment, discretion, relativity. 
It is symbolized by the Sun, Q , of which it is the negative number. Being a negative 
number it is, therefore, formative instead of creative as with the number One. It shows 
a sequence of organic changes. It is a number which is associated with alchemical 
processes involving sublimation and transmutation and all mutation of atomic 
structure, ancient or modern.  
  This is also the number of opposition, rebellion and explosion and, in the latter, may 
be linked to the principle of chain reaction and thus links with the modern scientific 
trend of nuclear fission. 
 
FIVE 
is the number of variety, adaptability and mental change. It has rule over the outer 
consciousness which deals with the material factors of life and the process of 
discrimination, analysis, sometimes the tearing of things to pieces as on criticism. All 
forms of literary expression and the exercise of local government come under its 
vibration. It is symbolized by the planet Mercury : S . 
  In its constructive aspect it gives a wonderful elasticity of thought and inspiration 
which can be expressed in speech and writing thus making oratory and the written 
word key-notes of the numbers influence. From the less favorable angle the vibration 
brings a danger of active plagiarism. Vacillation and indicision are concomitant 
factors and if given way to will weaken the character and cause ultimate loss of 
prestige and reputation. The number is associated with quicksilver, the volatile 
qualities of which are well known, as it can split into a myriad particles in a moment 
of time and yet coalesce again just as quickly. 
  The number often express itself in a dual capacity, drawing out the potential for 
both good and evil, ranging from the highest intellectual attainment to the lowest 
degree of mental debasement. 
 
 
 
 
SIX 
is the number of co-operation, of marriage, interlacing, link or connection. It 
represents the two triads in their interaction, the Seal of Solomon* or interlaced 
triangles. The interplay of spirit and matter, the human soul; psychology, divination, 
communion, psychism, telepathy, spychometry, and alchemy. The Great Work. 
Co-ordination, concord, harmony, peace, satisfaction, happiness and material well 
being. Intercourse and reciprocity. Connubiality, the relations of the sexes. 
noumenal and phenomenal, thought and perception. Discernment, discretion, relativity. 
It is symbolized by the Sun, Q , of which it is the negative number. Being a negative 
number it is, therefore, formative instead of creative as with the number One. It shows 
a sequence of organic changes. It is a number which is associated with alchemical 
processes involving sublimation and transmutation and all mutation of atomic 
structure, ancient or modern. 
This is also the number of opposition, rebellion and explosion and, in the latter, may 
be linked to the principle of chain reaction and thus links with the modern scientific 
trend of nuclear fission. 
FIVE 
is the number of variety, adaptability and mental change. It has rule over the outer 
consciousness which deals with the material factors of life and the process of 
discrimination, analysis, sometimes the tearing of things to pieces as on criticism. All 
forms of literary expression and the exercise of local government come under its 
vibration. It is symbolized by the planet Mercury: S . 
In its constructive aspect it gives a wonderful elasticity of thought and inspiration 
which can be expressed in speech and writing thus making oratory and the written 
word key-notes of the numbers influence. From the less favorable angle the vibration 
brings a danger of active plagiarism. Vacillation and indicision are concomitant 
factors and if given way to will weaken the character and cause ultimate loss of 
prestige and reputation. The number is associated with quicksilver, the volatile 
qualities of which are well known, as it can split into a myriad particles in a moment 
of time and yet coalesce again just as quickly. 
The number often express itself in a dual capacity, drawing out the potential for 
both good and evil, ranging from the highest intellectual attainment to the lowest 
degree of mental debasement. 
SIX 
is the number of co-operation, of marriage, interlacing, link or connection. It 
represents the two triads in their interaction, the Seal of Solomon* or interlaced 
triangles. The interplay of spirit and matter, the human soul; psychology, divination, 
communion, psychism, telepathy, spychometry, and alchemy. The Great Work. 
Co-ordination, concord, harmony, peace, satisfaction, happiness and material well 
being. Intercourse and reciprocity. Connubiality, the relations of the sexes.

--- PAGE 8 of 67 ---

7
It is indicated by the planet Venus: T. 
 
  In certain instances the number Six is considered a rather weak number, and its 
weakness is intensified in terms of human character and destiny if more than one Six 
appears in the computation of the name-number or the number horoscope. Readers 
will recall references which have been made in biblical and other writings to the 
beastiality of the number 666 which is really three sixes and termed the number of the  
“Beast”. When two or more sixes occur the principle of temptation becomes 
emphasized and exercises a malign influence over life and destiny. 
 
SEVEN 
governs the cyclic law of time. The breaking back if the natural to the spiritual; 
liberation; revolution; reaction, separation. It is emblematic of the seven ages of man, 
the seven days of the week, the seven seals, the seven notes of the musical scale, and 
these seven prismatic colours—Violet, Indigo, Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange and Red. 
It is symbolized by the Moon, R, of which it is the positive number. In this positive 
expression it is associated with the full Moon when the Moon is in exact opposition to 
the Sun and thus reflecting the full light of the Sun and thus reflecting the full light of 
the Sun onto the Earth. 
  Seven is the mystical number, the number which governs all rites and ceremonies of 
a magical nature which can only be performed correctly at the time of the full moon. 
The invoking of elemental forces and spirits, the performing of exorcism for the 
banishment of evil spirits, the overcoming of obsessions and the forcing of a 
discontinuance of poltergeist phenomena are all the more easily performed by using 
the number seven in the ritualistic preparation, particularly at the time of the full 
Moon. 
  This number is greatly associated with the domestic and family conditions of the 
life and has much to do with the function of childbirth, which is the actual delivery of 
the infant and the commencement of a separate existence. 
EIGHT 
is the number of completion. Time and space, duration and distance, old ages, 
decadence and death. 
  There are many curious things in history as regards this number. The Greeks called 
it the number of Justice on account of its equal divisions of equally even numbers. 
The Jews practised circumcision on the eighth day after birth. At their Feast of 
Dedication they kept eight candles burning and their Feast lasted eight days. Eight 
prophets were descended from Rahab. There were eight sects of Pharisees. Noah was 
the eighth in direct descent from Adam. The strange number of three eights (8 8 8) is 
It is indicated by the planet Venus: 
In certain instances the number Six is considered a rather weak number, and its 
weakness is intensified in terms of human character and destiny if more than one Six 
appears in the computation of the name-number or the number horoscope. Readers 
will recall references which have been made in biblical and other writings to the 
beastiality of the number 666 which is really three sixes and termed the number of the 
“Beast”. When two or more sixes occur the principle of temptation becomes 
emphasized and exercises a malign influence over life and destiny. 
SEVEN 
governs the cyclic law of time. The breaking back if the natural to the spiritual; 
liberation; revolution; reaction, separation. It is emblematic of the seven ages of man, 
the seven days of the week, the seven seals, the seven notes of the musical scale, and 
these seven prismatic colours—Violet, Indigo, Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange and Red. 
It is symbolized by the Moon, R, of which it is the positive number. In this positive 
expression it is associated with the full Moon when the Moon is in exact opposition to 
the Sun and thus reflecting the full light of the Sun and thus reflecting the full light of 
the Sun onto the Earth. 
Seven is the mystical number, the number which governs all rites and ceremonies of 
a magical nature which can only be performed correctly at the time of the full moon. 
The invoking of elemental forces and spirits, the performing of exorcism for the 
banishment of evil spirits, the overcoming of obsessions and the forcing of a 
discontinuance of poltergeist phenomena are all the more easily performed by using 
the number seven in the ritualistic preparation, particularly at the time of the full 
Moon. 
This number is greatly associated with the domestic and family conditions of the 
life and has much to do with the function of childbirth, which is the actual delivery of 
the infant and the commencement of a separate existence. 
EIGHT 
is the number of completion. Time and space, duration and distance, old ages, 
decadence and death. 
There are many curious things in history as regards this number. The Greeks called 
it the number of Justice on account of its equal divisions of equally even numbers. 
The Jews practised circumcision on the eighth day after birth. At their Feast of 
Dedication they kept eight candles burning and their Feast lasted eight days. Eight 
prophets were descended from Rahab. There were eight sects of Pharisees. Noah was 
the eighth in direct descent from Adam. The strange number of three eights (8 8 8) is 
7

--- PAGE 9 of 67 ---

8
considered by certain students of occultism to be the number of Jesus Christ in His 
aspect as the redeemer of the world. This number 8 8 8 given to Christ is in direct 
opposition to 6 6 6 which the Book of Revelations states is “the number of the Beast 
or the number of Man”. It is symbolized by the planet Saturn: W. 
 
From the earliest ages it has been associated with the symbol of an irrevocable Fate 
both in the lives of individuals and with Nations. It may be pointed out that the planet 
Saturn is the ruling planet of the Jewish race, a race which has left the hand of Fate 
through the centuries. On the other hand, the number eight and the planet Saturn are 
both associated with destiny which is, in essence, the higher attribute of Fate, as it 
gives the individual the freedom of action which can be creative of either Destiny of 
Fate. 
 
NINE 
is the number of activity, energy, the fighter, the battle, the element of strife, and the 
expressing of courage. It shows a danger of foolhardiness, of impulsiveness of word 
and action, of quarrels and strife, and of accidents, particularly from fire and 
explosion. Resourcefulness and capacity for organization whether it be applied to the 
exigencies of the battlefield or the vocational interests of life, are common assets of 
this number. It is symbolized by the planet Mars: U. 
 
  The number nine has some curious properties. In mathematics it is the only number 
that, multiplied by any other number, always reproduces itself. For example, 9 times 
seven is 63, and 6 plus 3 once again becomes 9. This is the case with every number 
that it is multiplied by. 
  It is also of interest to note that in ancient burial the deads were always buried on 
the ninth day. The Saviour died at the ninth hour. Both the first and second temples of 
the Jews were destroyed on the ninth day of the Jewish month called Ab. In 
comparatively recent times the planetary scale was advanced from seven to nine by 
the discovery (or re-discovery) of the planets Uranus and Neptune, the former being 
discovered in the 18th century (9) and the latter in the next century, i.e. 1845 (9). 
   
 
There is again a mysterious association of the number 9 with number 6 6 6 for, if 
these three sixes are added together, 18 is obtained and 1 plus 8 gives the figure 9. 
This is really the spiritual number of 6 6 6 
 
 
considered by certain students of occultism to be the number of Jesus Christ in His 
aspect as the redeemer of the world. This number 8 8 8 given to Christ is in direct 
opposition to 6 6 6 which the Book of Revelations states is “the number of the Beast 
or the number of Man’. It is symbolized by the planet Saturn: W. 
From the earliest ages it has been associated with the symbol of an irrevocable Fate 
both in the lives of individuals and with Nations. It may be pointed out that the planet 
Saturn is the ruling planet of the Jewish race, a race which has left the hand of Fate 
through the centuries. On the other hand, the number eight and the planet Saturn are 
both associated with destiny which is, in essence, the higher attribute of Fate, as it 
gives the individual the freedom of action which can be creative of either Destiny of 
Fate. 
NINE 
is the number of activity, energy, the fighter, the battle, the element of strife, and the 
expressing of courage. It shows a danger of foolhardiness, of impulsiveness of word 
and action, of quarrels and strife, and of accidents, particularly from fire and 
explosion. Resourcefulness and capacity for organization whether it be applied to the 
exigencies of the battlefield or the vocational interests of life, are common assets of 
this number. It is symbolized by the planet Mars: U. 
The number nine has some curious properties. In mathematics it is the only number 
that, multiplied by any other number, always reproduces itself. For example, 9 times 
seven is 63, and 6 plus 3 once again becomes 9. This is the case with every number 
that it is multiplied by. 
It is also of interest to note that in ancient burial the deads were always buried on 
the ninth day. The Saviour died at the ninth hour. Both the first and second temples of 
the Jews were destroyed on the ninth day of the Jewish month called Ab. In 
comparatively recent times the planetary scale was advanced from seven to nine by 
the discovery (or re-discovery) of the planets Uranus and Neptune, the former being 
discovered in the 18" century (9) and the latter in the next century, i.e. 1845 (9). 
There is again a mysterious association of the number 9 with number 6 6 6 for, if 
these three sixes are added together, 18 is obtained and | plus 8 gives the figure 9. 
This is really the spiritual number of 6 6 6

--- PAGE 10 of 67 ---

9
ZERO (0) 
stands for Eternity, immensity, the infinite, infinitude, the universe in concept, Divine 
conception, ideation universality, circumambulation, navigation, circulation. Also for 
circumference, limitation, privation, restriction, and imperfection. Thus it is the 
universal paradox, the infinitely great and the infinitely small, Boundless Being and 
the Atom. Its symbol is the planet Pluto: [. 
 
  The cipher (0) is associated with the repetitive principle for, when it is added to 1, it 
becomes ten and when doubly added becomes 100, and so on. Thus it shows 
transformation and the long term plan of action. It can also signify negation. It has 
rule over atomic power or force and, from the standpoint of human character or 
destiny, it will rule the unknown or unseen factor which is often referred to as the “X” 
factor. 
  In the 20th century the planetary scale was stepped up to 10 by the discovery of the 
planet Pluto. It is interesting to note that both the planetary scale and the century 
involved have had the cipher “0” amplified. This planet has definite rule over the 
Atom and the “H” bomb, which have both been developed since the discovery of 
Pluto, and whose function of annihilation is one of the attributes of this planet. 
  These ascriptions follow the order of the days of the week and the Hebraic system 
of planetary numbers, thus:- 
  0 Space, Pluto; 1 and 4 the Sun (1 positive, 4 negative); 2 and 7 the Moon (2 
negative, 7 positive); 3 Jupiter; 5 Mercury; 6 Venus; 8 Saturn; 9 Mars. 
  The corresponding days are: 1 and 4, Sunday; 2 and 7, Monday; 9, Tuesday; 5, 
Wednesday; 3, Thursday; 6, Friday; 8, Saturday. 
  The planets Uranus, Neptune and Pluto do not come within the ordinary septenary 
scale as they commence the second octave of planetary vibrations. Uranus, however, 
being the octave of Mercury, will be associated in its positive aspect with Wednesday 
and the number 5, and in its negative aspect, with Sunday, number 4 and the Sun. The 
reason for this is that Uranus is the secondary ruler of the sign Aquarius, the 
opposition sign to Leo which is ruled by the Sun. In the case of Neptune, which is the 
octave of Venus, it will in its positive aspect be associated with Friday and the number 
6, but in its negative aspect it interchanges with the Moon and thus will influence 
Monday and the number 2. Pluto is the octave expression of Mars and from its 
positive standpoint will influence Tuesday and the number 8; its negative side is the 
cipher 0. 
 
 
 
 
ZERO (0) 
stands for Eternity, immensity, the infinite, infinitude, the universe in concept, Divine 
conception, ideation universality, circumambulation, navigation, circulation. Also for 
circumference, limitation, privation, restriction, and imperfection. Thus it is the 
universal paradox, the infinitely great and the infinitely small, Boundless Being and 
the Atom. Its symbol is the planet Pluto: [. 
The cipher (0) is associated with the repetitive principle for, when it is added to 1, it 
becomes ten and when doubly added becomes 100, and so on. Thus it shows 
transformation and the long term plan of action. It can also signify negation. It has 
rule over atomic power or force and, from the standpoint of human character or 
destiny, it will rule the unknown or unseen factor which is often referred to as the “X” 
factor. 
In the 20" century the planetary scale was stepped up to 10 by the discovery of the 
planet Pluto. It is interesting to note that both the planetary scale and the century 
involved have had the cipher “0” amplified. This planet has definite rule over the 
Atom and the “H” bomb, which have both been developed since the discovery of 
Pluto, and whose function of annihilation is one of the attributes of this planet. 
These ascriptions follow the order of the days of the week and the Hebraic system 
of planetary numbers, thus:- 
0 Space, Pluto; 1 and 4 the Sun (1 positive, 4 negative); 2 and 7 the Moon (2 
negative, 7 positive); 3 Jupiter; 5 Mercury; 6 Venus; 8 Saturn; 9 Mars. 
The corresponding days are: | and 4, Sunday; 2 and 7, Monday; 9, Tuesday; 5, 
Wednesday; 3, Thursday; 6, Friday; 8, Saturday. 
The planets Uranus, Neptune and Pluto do not come within the ordinary septenary 
scale as they commence the second octave of planetary vibrations. Uranus, however, 
being the octave of Mercury, will be associated in its positive aspect with Wednesday 
and the number 5, and in its negative aspect, with Sunday, number 4 and the Sun. The 
reason for this is that Uranus is the secondary ruler of the sign Aquarius, the 
opposition sign to Leo which is ruled by the Sun. In the case of Neptune, which is the 
octave of Venus, it will in its positive aspect be associated with Friday and the number 
6, but in its negative aspect it interchanges with the Moon and thus will influence 
Monday and the number 2. Pluto is the octave expression of Mars and from its 
positive standpoint will influence Tuesday and the number 8; its negative side is the 
cipher 0.

--- PAGE 11 of 67 ---

10
CHAPTER TWO 
 
THE HERBREW KABALA 
 
  In the previous chapter a description has been given of what may be termed the 
single or “unit” numbers from 1 to 9 and of the Cipher “0”, together with 
correspondences to the Sun, Moon and planets, and the days of the week.  
  There is, however, an extension of number allocation beyond the unit bringing in 
what may be termed double or composite numbers from 10to 22. This extension is 
associated with the Hebrew Kabala. The word Kabala means Traditional Knowledge. 
  In the Hebrew Alphabet there are 22 letters and these are linked with the numbers 
from 1 to 22, and with the letters of the English Alphabet. As the latter consists of 26 
letters there are in certain instances a grouping of more than one English letter for the 
corresponding Hebrew letter. The following Table shows the Hebrew letter, the 
Engl-ish Equivalent and the associated number together with the zodiacal or planetary 
ruler. 
Hebrew Letter   English Letter   Number   Planetary or Zodiacal Ruler 
Aleph 
 
 
A 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
S 
Mercury 
Beth  
 
 
B 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
F 
Virgo 
Gimel 
 
 
G 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
G 
Libra 
Daleth 
 
 
D 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
H 
Scorpio 
He  
 
 
E 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
V 
Jupiter 
Vau  
 
 
V U W 
 
 
6 
 
 
T 
Venus 
Zain  
 
 
Z 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
I Sagittarius 
Cheth 
 
 
H 
 
 
 
8 
 
 
J 
Capricorn 
Teth  
 
 
Th  
 
 
9 
 
 
K 
Aquarius 
Jod  
 
 
I J Y 
 
 
10  
 
X 
Uranus 
Caph 
 
 
C K  
 
 
11  
 
Y 
Neptune 
Lamed 
 
 
L 
 
 
 
12  
 
L 
Pisces 
Mem 
 
 
M 
 
 
 
13  
 
A 
Aries 
Nun  
 
 
N 
 
 
 
14  
 
B 
Taurus 
Sameck  
 
X 
 
 
 
15  
 
W 
Saturn 
Ayin              O 
 
 
 
16  
 
U 
Mars 
Pe  
 
 
F P  
 
 
17  
 
C 
Gemini   
Tzaddi 
 
 
Ts Tz 
 
 
18  
 
D 
Cancer 
Quoph 
 
 
Q 
 
 
 
19  
 
E 
Leo 
Resh 
 
 
R 
 
 
 
20  
 
R 
Moon 
Shin              S 
 
 
 
21  
 
Q Sun 
Tau               T 
 
 
 
22       
@ 
Earth 
   
CHAPTER TWO 
THE HERBREW KABALA 
In the previous chapter a description has been given of what may be termed the 
single or “unit” numbers from 1 to 9 and of the Cipher “0”, together with 
correspondences to the Sun, Moon and planets, and the days of the week. 
There is, however, an extension of number allocation beyond the unit bringing in 
what may be termed double or composite numbers from 10to 22. This extension is 
associated with the Hebrew Kabala. The word Kabala means Traditional Knowledge. 
In the Hebrew Alphabet there are 22 letters and these are linked with the numbers 
from | to 22, and with the letters of the English Alphabet. As the latter consists of 26 
letters there are in certain instances a grouping of more than one English letter for the 
corresponding Hebrew letter. The following Table shows the Hebrew letter, the 
Engl-ish Equivalent and the associated number together with the zodiacal or planetary 
ruler. 
Hebrew Letter 
English Letter 
Number 
Planetary or Zodiacal Ruler 
Aleph 
A 
1 
S 
Mercury 
Beth 
B 
2 
F 
Virgo 
Gimel 
G 
3 
G 
Libra 
Daleth 
D 
4 
H 
Scorpio 
He 
E 
5 
V 
Jupiter 
Vau 
VUW 
6 
Venus 
Zain 
Z 
7 
I 
Sagittarius 
Cheth 
H 
8 
J 
Capricorn 
Teth 
Th 
9 
K 
Aquarius 
Jod 
IJY 
10 
X Uranus 
Caph 
CK 
11 
Y 
Neptune 
Lamed 
L 
12 
L__ 
Pisces 
Mem 
M 
13 
A Aries 
Nun 
N 
14 
B 
Taurus 
Sameck 
x 
15 
W 
Saturn 
Ayin 
O 
16 
U_ 
Mars 
Pe 
FP 
17 
C 
Gemini 
Tzaddi 
Ts Tz 
18 
D 
Cancer 
Quoph 
Q 
19 
FE 
Leo 
Resh 
R 
20 
R Moon 
Shin 
N) 
21 
QO 
Sun 
Tau 
T 
22 
@ = Earth 
10

--- PAGE 12 of 67 ---

11
With the number 10 as an integral number we come to the first of the double numbers 
and these each have a distinctive influence.  
 
  The number TEN in itself shows a transition from the units to the double numbers 
and therefore denotes a change and a manifesting of vibrations and conditions upon 
another and a different plane, of spirituality, of mentality or thought, and of physical 
action or material expression. Whereas the number ONE came under the influence of 
Mercury, the ruler of the brain and the mind, the number TEN comes under the 
influence of the planet Uranus which is the octave expression of Mercury and governs 
the twin factors of Inspiration and Genius. Mercury rules the literary processes of 
thought, Uranus rules thee scientific and, in its influence over the life and destiny of 
the individual, will bring sudden and unexpected changes of thought and action and of 
Fortune, sometimes for good and sometimes for ill, sometimes as a result of the 
volitional thought and action of the individual, at other times as a direct result of Fate, 
or circumstance. 
 
  The number ELEVEN operates through the higher emotional side of the nature, 
showing the expression of the universal compassion and love as distinct from the 
personal and selfish form of love which is often cased upon passion. It is a feminine 
and a magnetic number and has a great deal to do with psychic force as well as 
spiritual power and fortitude. It comes under the domination of the planet Neptune 
and gives the capacity to use the power of suggestion so as to influence other people 
and help them in the overcoming of physical , moral and spiritual weakness. 
 
  The number TWELVE is also an emotional number giving a superb understanding 
of the depths of human emotion and suffering. As a result of this understanding it 
gives the capacity to make sacrifices for others and to “turn the other cheek” when 
abused or ill treated. Despite all the vicissitudes of life there will be a warmness of 
expression towards other people and a maintaining of a sense of humour. Responding 
to the vibration of the zodiacal sign of Pisces it arouses the desire to heal the sick. It is 
the number of Nursing and of Administration. 
 
  The number HIRTEEN is another number of transformation, this time having rule 
over matters to do with both life and death and the transition from the earthly to the 
astral sphere of activity. It signifies the beginning of a new cycle where there is more 
freedom and where the thralldom of the material and financial cares of earthly life are 
absent. From another angle it is the number of bravery and of the pioneer, for it 
responds to the influence of the Zodiacal sign Aries. It draws out a natural degree of 
the kind of courage needed to handle the varying fluctuations in ordinary life and to 
face up to danger and even to death when they occur. 
With the number 10 as an integral number we come to the first of the double numbers 
and these each have a distinctive influence. 
The number TEN 
in itself shows a transition from the units to the double numbers 
and therefore denotes a change and a manifesting of vibrations and conditions upon 
another and a different plane, of spirituality, of mentality or thought, and of physical 
action or material expression. Whereas the number ONE came under the influence of 
Mercury, the ruler of the brain and the mind, the number TEN comes under the 
influence of the planet Uranus which is the octave expression of Mercury and governs 
the twin factors of Inspiration and Genius. Mercury rules the literary processes of 
thought, Uranus rules thee scientific and, in its influence over the life and destiny of 
the individual, will bring sudden and unexpected changes of thought and action and of 
Fortune, sometimes for good and sometimes for ill, sometimes as a result of the 
volitional thought and action of the individual, at other times as a direct result of Fate, 
or circumstance. 
The number ELEVEN operates through the higher emotional side of the nature, 
showing the expression of the universal compassion and love as distinct from the 
personal and selfish form of love which is often cased upon passion. It is a feminine 
and a magnetic number and has a great deal to do with psychic force as well as 
spiritual power and fortitude. It comes under the domination of the planet Neptune 
and gives the capacity to use the power of suggestion so as to influence other people 
and help them in the overcoming of physical , moral and spiritual weakness. 
The number TWELVE is also an emotional number giving a superb understanding 
of the depths of human emotion and suffering. As a result of this understanding it 
gives the capacity to make sacrifices for others and to “turn the other cheek” when 
abused or ill treated. Despite all the vicissitudes of life there will be a warmness of 
expression towards other people and a maintaining of a sense of humour. Responding 
to the vibration of the zodiacal sign of Pisces it arouses the desire to heal the sick. It is 
the number of Nursing and of Administration. 
The number HIRTEEN is another number of transformation, this time having rule 
over matters to do with both life and death and the transition from the earthly to the 
astral sphere of activity. It signifies the beginning of a new cycle where there is more 
freedom and where the thralldom of the material and financial cares of earthly life are 
absent. From another angle it is the number of bravery and of the pioneer, for it 
responds to the influence of the Zodiacal sign Aries. It draws out a natural degree of 
the kind of courage needed to handle the varying fluctuations in ordinary life and to 
face up to danger and even to death when they occur. 
11

--- PAGE 13 of 67 ---

12
 
  The number FOURTEEN is more material and physical number. It has to do with 
Nature itself and with what may be termed the Forces of Nature. It is a conserving 
number and yet has extremely great potentiality of power when it is unleashed. To 
some extent it is associated with the factor of growth—the growth of living 
organisms—and with beauty, art, music and singing, whilst from a more material 
standpoint it will have influence over money and over precious stones in their entirety. 
The zodiacal sign of Taurus exercised its sway over this number, giving firmness, 
inertia or obstinacy and yet dynamic force that will not be frustrated. 
 
  The number FIFTEEN is the number of Fate and Destiny. It gives Power and yet 
can take it away. In some respects it is a number of mystery and of matters to do with 
the Underworld, of Purgatory or Hell, where the soul of the individual may languish 
as a result of evil things done whilst on earth. It warns that the exercise of authority 
should never be abused, for it is also a number associated with the principle of Justice. 
As one sows so must one reap. It is dominated by the planet Saturn. It shows that, if 
power is used wrongly, a fall from position must occur and a Karma is created for 
future earthly incarnation; but if power is used justly and wisely, then the principle of 
Predestination becomes operative. 
 
  The number SIXTEEN is another very powerful number, both for good and for ill. 
It governs the physical forces and passions, blind anger, rash impulse, temper, and yet, 
from the constructive standpoint, shows the capacity to be aggressive when there is 
the necessity to put up a fight against wrong-doing and the evil actions and brutality 
of others. It can bring a spirit of rivalry and, when this is permitted unduly, it can 
cause destruction; but when used to promote healthy competition for constructive 
ends, it will give tremendous force and energy. It is ruled by the planet Mars, the 
planet of war and pestilence but also the planet of exploration and discovery. 
 
  The number SEVENTEEN is another spiritual number and expresses the principle 
of Immortality, the continuity of ideas and of principles themselves. Some of these 
principles can be summarized as Truth, Hope, Faith, Charity, principles that persist 
through all ages and are to be found in all races and in all parts of the world. It is a 
number of illumination and aids in the understanding by the Zodiacal sign of Gemini, 
representative of intellectual force, of intuition and of reason. 
 
  The number EIGHTEEN is what may be termed a “difficult” number. It shows an 
attack by the materialistic side of the nature on the spiritual attributes. There is a 
danger of giving way to intrigue and deception on the one hand and of encountering 
false friends and secret foes on the other hand. It gives a warning of both treachery 
The number FOURTEEN is more material and physical number. It has to do with 
Nature itself and with what may be termed the Forces of Nature. It is a conserving 
number and yet has extremely great potentiality of power when it is unleashed. To 
some extent it is associated with the factor of growth—the growth of living 
organisms—and with beauty, art, music and singing, whilst from a more material 
standpoint it will have influence over money and over precious stones in their entirety. 
The zodiacal sign of Taurus exercised its sway over this number, giving firmness, 
inertia or obstinacy and yet dynamic force that will not be frustrated. 
The number FIFTEEN is the number of Fate and Destiny. It gives Power and yet 
can take it away. In some respects it is a number of mystery and of matters to do with 
the Underworld, of Purgatory or Hell, where the soul of the individual may languish 
as a result of evil things done whilst on earth. It warns that the exercise of authority 
should never be abused, for it is also a number associated with the principle of Justice. 
AS one sows so must one reap. It is dominated by the planet Saturn. It shows that, if 
power is used wrongly, a fall from position must occur and a Karma is created for 
future earthly incarnation; but if power is used justly and wisely, then the principle of 
Predestination becomes operative. 
The number SIXTEEN is another very powerful number, both for good and for ill. 
It governs the physical forces and passions, blind anger, rash impulse, temper, and yet, 
from the constructive standpoint, shows the capacity to be aggressive when there is 
the necessity to put up a fight against wrong-doing and the evil actions and brutality 
of others. It can bring a spirit of rivalry and, when this is permitted unduly, it can 
cause destruction; but when used to promote healthy competition for constructive 
ends, it will give tremendous force and energy. It is ruled by the planet Mars, the 
planet of war and pestilence but also the planet of exploration and discovery. 
The number SEVENTEEN is another spiritual number and expresses the principle 
of Immortality, the continuity of ideas and of principles themselves. Some of these 
principles can be summarized as Truth, Hope, Faith, Charity, principles that persist 
through all ages and are to be found in all races and in all parts of the world. It is a 
number of illumination and aids in the understanding by the Zodiacal sign of Gemini, 
representative of intellectual force, of intuition and of reason. 
The number EIGHTEEN is what may be termed a “difficult” number. It shows an 
attack by the materialistic side of the nature on the spiritual attributes. There is a 
danger of giving way to intrigue and deception on the one hand and of encountering 
false friends and secret foes on the other hand. It gives a warning of both treachery 
12

--- PAGE 14 of 67 ---

13
and danger, caused bitter quarrels which can involve friends and family and implies 
periods of danger through water, fires and even explosions. Astrologically it is 
influenced by the sign Cancer which, although giving a tenacity of purpose, can also 
bring a fear of the unknown. 
 
  The number NINETEEN on the other hand is one of the fortune numbers. It brings 
conditions of happiness and joy, and is especially helpful and favorable for all 
interests to do with children and young people. It is one of the creative numbers, 
physically, mentally and emotionally, and is significator of such love as springs 
unselfishly into manifestation as a result of natural harmony and of joy of life. It will 
bring much progress, advancement and attainment, and as it is under the vibration of 
the Zodiacal sign of Leo with the pictorial symbol of the Sun, it is a number 
promising success, honour and esteem. 
 
  The number TWENTY is again a mainly favorable number, although its fortune 
depends to a great extent upon the Faith, and Effort, of the individual. It symbolizes 
Awakening or Resurrection, and from a spiritual standpoint shows that there must be a 
firm faith that there is an after life and a continuation of activity after the death of the 
physical body, if spiritual progress is to be made and inner understanding and 
illumination obtained. Similarly there must be faith in the individual ability to do 
things as well as a putting forth of personal effort in order to demonstrate that ability 
and thus bring about progress along that particular sphere of life which is if greatest 
interest. The Moon is the planetary ruler of this number and it governs the principle of 
gestation. 
 
  The number TWENTY-ONE is a number of advancement and of elevation. It shows 
the crowning factor of achievement as a result of effort—the obtaining of power, of 
authority, of recognition. It will bring victory after a long fight. It symbolizes the one 
who is at the head of affairs irrespective of whether they are spiritual or material. It is 
the number of the Adept, the King, the President, the Head of the Clan, Cause or 
Home. It comes under the vibration of the Sun as the planetary ruler and shows a 
working out of Destiny in a positive manner. 
 
 
  The number TWENTY-TWO is an unfortunate number. It is the number that 
inspires doubt and unbelief and shows an individual who is in danger of letting his 
own conceit and vanity blind him to the spiritual, emotional and physical dangers that 
beset his path. It is a number warning against illusion and delusion, a number of false 
judgment and degeneration f its weakness, if so, then the liability to failure, folly or 
mistake can be overcome. It is under the rulership of the Earth and as such does 
and danger, caused bitter quarrels which can involve friends and family and implies 
periods of danger through water, fires and even explosions. Astrologically it is 
influenced by the sign Cancer which, although giving a tenacity of purpose, can also 
bring a fear of the unknown. 
The number NINETEEN on the other hand is one of the fortune numbers. It brings 
conditions of happiness and joy, and is especially helpful and favorable for all 
interests to do with children and young people. It is one of the creative numbers, 
physically, mentally and emotionally, and is significator of such love as springs 
unselfishly into manifestation as a result of natural harmony and of joy of life. It will 
bring much progress, advancement and attainment, and as it is under the vibration of 
the Zodiacal sign of Leo with the pictorial symbol of the Sun, it is a number 
promising success, honour and esteem. 
The number TWENTY is again a mainly favorable number, although its fortune 
depends to a great extent upon the Faith, and Effort, of the individual. It symbolizes 
Awakening or Resurrection, and from a spiritual standpoint shows that there must be a 
firm faith that there is an after life and a continuation of activity after the death of the 
physical body, if spiritual progress is to be made and inner understanding and 
illumination obtained. Similarly there must be faith in the individual ability to do 
things as well as a putting forth of personal effort in order to demonstrate that ability 
and thus bring about progress along that particular sphere of life which is if greatest 
interest. The Moon is the planetary ruler of this number and it governs the principle of 
gestation. 
The number TWENTY-ONE is a number of advancement and of elevation. It shows 
the crowning factor of achievement as a result of effort—the obtaining of power, of 
authority, of recognition. It will bring victory after a long fight. It symbolizes the one 
who is at the head of affairs irrespective of whether they are spiritual or material. It is 
the number of the Adept, the King, the President, the Head of the Clan, Cause or 
Home. It comes under the vibration of the Sun as the planetary ruler and shows a 
working out of Destiny in a positive manner. 
The number TWENTY-TWO is an unfortunate number. It is the number that 
inspires doubt and unbelief and shows an individual who is in danger of letting his 
own conceit and vanity blind him to the spiritual, emotional and physical dangers that 
beset his path. It is a number warning against illusion and delusion, a number of false 
judgment and degeneration f its weakness, if so, then the liability to failure, folly or 
mistake can be overcome. It is under the rulership of the Earth and as such does 
13

--- PAGE 15 of 67 ---

14
intensify the dogma of materialism, sometimes of atheism and of the negation of 
spiritual virtues; but it shows that the lessons of life can bring about a breaking of the 
bonds which limit and restrict the consciousness and, once this occurs, the materialist 
vibration is overcome. 
 
  The interpretation of a number can be based on either the unit system or the Kabala; 
but in order to avoid confusion it must be stated that, in the unit system, only the 
planetary influence is used and no reference is made to the signs of the Zodiac. The 
letters of the English Alphabet and their corresponding number and planetary 
vibration are given in the table below. 
 
 
                      UNIT SYSTEM 
    Letter           Number       Planetary Influence 
  A I J Q Y 
 
 
1 
 
 
Q 
Sun positive 
  B C K R 
 
 
2 
 
 
R 
Moon negative 
  G L S  
 
 
3 
 
 
V 
Jupiter 
  D M T  
 
 
4 
 
 
Q 
Sun negative 
  E N 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
S 
Mercury 
  U V W  
 
 
6 
 
 
T 
Venus 
  O X Z  
 
 
7 
 
 
R 
Moon positive 
  H F P  
 
 
8 
 
 
W Saturn 
  Th Ts Tz 
 
 
9 
 
 
U 
Mars 
 
 
  NOTE: In the Unit System there is no influence from the planets Uranus, Neptune, 
Pluto. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intensify the dogma of materialism, sometimes of atheism and of the negation of 
spiritual virtues; but it shows that the lessons of life can bring about a breaking of the 
bonds which limit and restrict the consciousness and, once this occurs, the materialist 
vibration is overcome. 
The interpretation of a number can be based on either the unit system or the Kabala; 
but in order to avoid confusion it must be stated that, in the unit system, only the 
planetary influence is used and no reference is made to the signs of the Zodiac. The 
letters of the English Alphabet and their corresponding number and planetary 
vibration are given in the table below. 
UNIT SYSTEM 
Letter 
Number 
Planetary Influence 
AIJQY 
1 
Q 
Sun positive 
BCKR 
2 
R_ 
Moon negative 
GLS 
3 
V 
Jupiter 
DMT 
4 
Q 
Sun negative 
EN 
5 
S 
Mercury 
UVW 
6 
Venus 
OXZ 
7 
R_ 
Moon positive 
HF P 
8 
W 
Saturn 
Th Ts Tz 
9 
U_ 
Mars 
NOTE: In the Unit System there is no influence from the planets Uranus, Neptune, 
Pluto. 
14

--- PAGE 16 of 67 ---

15
CHAPTER THREE 
 
NAMES AND NUMBERS 
 
  In unlocking the meaning of a name, the numerical value of that name must be 
obtained by the adding together of the numbers that correspond to each letter of the 
name, finding the sum total and then either reducing this to a unit, i.e. 1 to 9, if the 
unit system of numbers is used, or reducing to number 22 or under should the 
Kabalistic system of numbers be used; for, as already explained, each of the 22 
numbers associated with the Kabala has a specific influence. 
  Let us, therefore, take a few examples at first of Christian or Forenames—not 
surnames, as they describe family traits and family history rather than the personal or 
individual character and fortune. 
  A few popular names will serve to show the method involved and both the Unit and 
Hebrew Kabalistic system of numbers will be illustrated: 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
A  R  T  H  U  R                   A  R  T  H  U  R 
1  2   4  8   6  4                   1  20  22  8  6  20 
    =  25  =  7                          =  77  =  14 
 
  Here we see that the unit system of numbering brings in the influence of the number 
7 whilst the Kabala brings in the influence of the number 14. With the Unit system the 
number 7 is ruled by the Moon (it is the positive number of this luminary) whereas in 
the Kabala the number 14 brings in the influence of the sign Taurus. If one wishes to 
take a composite or extremely broad view of the character then both descriptions 
could be taken and applied, the description of the Moon being found under the 
number 20 on page 28, and the description of Taurus and the number 14 being found 
on page 26 in chapter 4. 
  Further illustrations of names:- 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
E  D  W  A  R  D                  E  D  W  A  R  D 
5  4   6   1  2  4                   5  4   6   1  20  4 
=  22  =  4                          =  40  =  4 
 
  In this instance the final result of the number comes to the same, 4 in each case, and 
when this occurs it can be taken as a concentrating or consolidating of the particular 
vibration of that number on the character.  
 
 
 
CHAPTER THREE 
NAMES AND NUMBERS 
In unlocking the meaning of a name, the numerical value of that name must be 
obtained by the adding together of the numbers that correspond to each letter of the 
name, finding the sum total and then either reducing this to a unit, i.e. 1 to 9, if the 
unit system of numbers is used, or reducing to number 22 or under should the 
Kabalistic system of numbers be used; for, as already explained, each of the 22 
numbers associated with the Kabala has a specific influence. 
Let us, therefore, take a few examples at first of Christian or Forenames—not 
surnames, as they describe family traits and family history rather than the personal or 
individual character and fortune. 
A few popular names will serve to show the method involved and both the Unit and 
Hebrew Kabalistic system of numbers will be illustrated: 
Unit System 
Kabala 
A RTH UR 
A R TH UR 
12 4 8 
6 4 
1 
20 22 8 6 20 
= 25 = 7 
= 77 = 14 
Here we see that the unit system of numbering brings in the influence of the number 
7 whilst the Kabala brings in the influence of the number 14. With the Unit system the 
number 7 is ruled by the Moon (it is the positive number of this luminary) whereas in 
the Kabala the number 14 brings in the influence of the sign Taurus. If one wishes to 
take a composite or extremely broad view of the character then both descriptions 
could be taken and applied, the description of the Moon being found under the 
number 20 on page 28, and the description of Taurus and the number 14 being found 
on page 26 in chapter 4. 
Further illustrations of names:- 
Unit System 
Kabala 
EDWARD 
EDWARD 
5 4 
6 
12 4 
5 4 
6 
1 
20 4 
= 22 = 4 
= 40 = 4 
In this instance the final result of the number comes to the same, 4 in each case, and 
when this occurs it can be taken as a concentrating or consolidating of the particular 
vibration of that number on the character. 
15

--- PAGE 17 of 67 ---

16
The number 4 brings in the influence of the Zodiacal sign of Scorpio which will be 
found on page 23, Chapter 4. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
S  I  D  N  E  Y                   S   I  D   N  E  Y 
3  1  4  5   5  1                   22  10  4  14  5  10 
=  19  =  10  =  1                      =  65  =  11 
 
  There are again two numbers involved and the number 1 in the Unit System brings 
in the influence of the Sun positive which will be found on page 28 of Chapter 4 
whilst the number 11 brings in the influence of Neptune, to be found on page 25 in 
that Chapter. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
G  E  O  R  G  E                   G  E  O  R  G  E 
3  5  7   2  3   5                   3  5  16  20  3  5 
   =  25  =  7                           =  52  =  7 
 
  Both numbers are the same, the influence of 7 in the Unit system being the positive 
number of the Moon, the description is given by the Moon, Chapter 4, page 28. In the 
Kabala 7 brings in the influence of the sign Sagittarius, Chapter 4, page 24 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
A  L  F  R  E  D                   A  L   F   R  E  D 
1  3  8  2   5  4                    1  12  17  20  5  4 
    =  23  =  5                        =  59  =  14 
 
  In the Unit system the number 5 brings in the influence of the planet Mercury, 
Chapter 4, page 22 whilst the Kabala brings in the influence of the sign Taurus, 
Chapter 4, page 26. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
H  E  R  B  E  R  T               H  E  R  B  E  R  T  
8  5   2  2  5   2  4               8  5  20  2  5  20  22 
=  28  =  10  =  1                      =  82  =  10 
 
  The number 1 in the Unit system brings in the influence of the Sun (positive), 
Chapter 4, page 28 whilst the number 10 of the Kabala brings in the influence of the 
planet Uranus, Chapter 4, page 25. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
J  O  H  N                          J  O  H  N 
1  7  8   5                         10  16  8  14  
=  21  =  3                         =  48  =  12 
 
The number 4 brings in the influence of the Zodiacal sign of Scorpio which will be 
found on page 23, Chapter 4. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
SIDNEY 
S 
I DNEY 
3 145 5 
1 
22 10 4 14 5 10 
= 19 = 10 = 1 
= 65 = ll 
There are again two numbers involved and the number | in the Unit System brings 
in the influence of the Sun positive which will be found on page 28 of Chapter 4 
whilst the number 11 brings in the influence of Neptune, to be found on page 25 in 
that Chapter. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
GEORGE 
GEORGE 
3 57 23 
=5 
3 5 16 20 3 5 
= 25 = 7 
= 52 = 7 
Both numbers are the same, the influence of 7 in the Unit system being the positive 
number of the Moon, the description is given by the Moon, Chapter 4, page 28. In the 
Kabala 7 brings in the influence of the sign Sagittarius, Chapter 4, page 24 
Unit System 
Kabala 
A LF RE D 
A L 
F 
R ED 
13 8 2 
5 4 
1 
12 17 20 5 4 
= 23 = 5 
= 59 = 14 
In the Unit system the number 5 brings in the influence of the planet Mercury, 
Chapter 4, page 22 whilst the Kabala brings in the influence of the sign Taurus, 
Chapter 4, page 26. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
HER BERT 
HERBERT 
8 5 225 2 4 
8 5 20 2 5 20 22 
= 28 = 10 = 1 
= 82 = 10 
The number | in the Unit system brings in the influence of the Sun (positive), 
Chapter 4, page 28 whilst the number 10 of the Kabala brings in the influence of the 
planet Uranus, Chapter 4, page 25. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
JOHN 
JOHN 
178 5 
10 16 8 14 
= 21 = 3 
= 48 = 12 
16

--- PAGE 18 of 67 ---

17
  The number 3 in the Unit system shows the influence of the planet Jupiter, Chapter 
4, page 23 whilst the number 12 in the Kabala shows the influence of the Pisces, 
Chapter, page 26. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
G  A  B  R  I  E  L  L  E (Girl)    G  A  B  R  I  E  L  L  E 
3  1   2  2  1  5  3   3  5         3   1  2  20 10  5  12 12  5  
       =  25  =  7                          =  70  =  7 
 
  The same number comes out with both systems and the descriptions will be: for 
Unit system, 7, positive number of Moon, Chapter 4, page 28; for Kabala, Chapter 4, 
page 24, influence of the sign Sagittarius. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
G  A  B  R  I  E  L (Boy)          G  A  B  R  I  E  L 
3  1   2  2  1  5  3                3   1  2  20 10  5  12  
     =  17  =  8                        =  53  =  8 
 
  Both numbers are again the dame. The 8 in the Unit system will respond to the 
influence of Saturn, Chapter 4, page 26; the 8 in the Kabala vibrates to the sign 
Capricorn, Chapter 4, page 24. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
M  A  U  D  E                       M  A  U  D  E 
4   1  6   4  5                       13   1  6  4   5 
  =  20  =  2                           =  29  =  11 
 
  With the Unit system the number 2 shows the Moon negative vibration, Chapter 4, 
page 24; whilst the Kabala shows the number 11 under the influence of Neptune, 
Chapter 4, page 25. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
    M  A  U  D                        M  A  U  D   
    4   1  6   4                        13  1  6   4    
    =  15  =  6                         =  24  =  6 
  The same number results from each system. The number 6 in each system is the 
same, it brings in the influence of the planet Venus, Chapter 4, page 23. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
P  A  U  L  E  T  T  E             P  A  U  L  E  T  T  E 
8  1   6  3  5  4   4  5            17  1   6  12  5 22  22  5 
     =  36  =  9                           =  90  =  9 
 
   
 
The number 3 in the Unit system shows the influence of the planet Jupiter, Chapter 
4, page 23 whilst the number 12 in the Kabala shows the influence of the Pisces, 
Chapter, page 26. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
GABRIEL 
UL EGrl) GABRIELLE 
3 
1 
2215 3 
3:5 
3 
1 
2 2010 5 1212 5 
= 25 = 7 
= 70 = 7 
The same number comes out with both systems and the descriptions will be: for 
Unit system, 7, positive number of Moon, Chapter 4, page 28; for Kabala, Chapter 4, 
page 24, influence of the sign Sagittarius. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
G A BRI 
E L(Boy) 
GABRIEL 
3 
1 
22 1 
5 3 
3 
1 
2 2010 5 
12 
= 17 = 8 
= 53 = 8 
Both numbers are again the dame. The 8 in the Unit system will respond to the 
influence of Saturn, Chapter 4, page 26; the 8 in the Kabala vibrates to the sign 
Capricorn, Chapter 4, page 24. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
MA UDE 
MA UDE 
4 
16 4 5 
13. 
164 =5 
= 20 = 2 
= 29 = 11 
With the Unit system the number 2 shows the Moon negative vibration, Chapter 4, 
page 24; whilst the Kabala shows the number 11 under the influence of Neptune, 
Chapter 4, page 25. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
M A U D 
M A U D 
4 
16 4 
13 16 4 
= 15 = 6 
= 24 = 6 
The same number results from each system. The number 6 in each system is the 
same, it brings in the influence of the planet Venus, Chapter 4, page 23. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
PAU LETTE 
PAU LETTE 
8 
1 
63 54 4 5 
17 
1 
6 12 522 22 5 
= 36 = 9 
= 9 = 9 
17

--- PAGE 19 of 67 ---

18
In the Unit system the number 9 brings in the influence of Aquarius, Chapter 4, page 
25; also the Kabala shows the number 9, under the influence of the sign Aquarius, 
Chapter 4, page 25. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
P  A  U  L  I  N  E                P  A  U  L  I  N  E 
8  1   6  3  1  5  5                17  1  6  12 10  14  5 
=  29  =  11  =  2                      =  65  =  11 
 
  The number 2 in the Unit system responds to the influence of the Moon negative, 
Chapter 4, page 28; the number 11 in the Kabala shows the influence of the planet 
Neptune, Chapter 4, page 25. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
D  O  R  O  T  H  Y               D  O  R  O  T  H  Y 
4  7   2  7   4  8  1                4  16  20 16  22  8  10 
    =  33  =  6                           =  96  =  15 
 
  The number 6 in the Unit system gives the influence of the planet Venus, Chapter 4, 
page 23; whilst the number 15 in the Kabala gives the influence of the planet Saturn, 
Chapter 4, page 26. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
     L  I  L  Y                         L   I  L  Y 
     3  1  3  1                         12  10 12  10 
        =  8                             =  44  =  8 
 
  Both numbers the same, 8 in the Unit system shows the planet Saturn, Chapter 4, 
page 26; 8 in the Kabala shows the sign Capricorn, Chapter 4, page 24. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
      A  D  A                            A  D  A 
      1  4   1                             1  4   1 
        =  6                                =  6 
 
  Both numbers are again the same. The 6 in the Unit system and in the Kabala both 
respond to the influence of the planet Venus, Chapter 4, page 23. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
    A  L  I  C  E                     A  L   I  C   E 
    1  3  1  2  5                      1  12  10  11  5 
     =  12  =  3                        =  39  =  12 
 
   
 
In the Unit system the number 9 brings in the influence of Aquarius, Chapter 4, page 
25; also the Kabala shows the number 9, under the influence of the sign Aquarius, 
Chapter 4, page 25. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
PAULINE 
PAULINE 
8 
1 
63 15 5 
17 
1 
6 1210 14 5 
= 29 = ll = 2 
= 65 = ll 
The number 2 in the Unit system responds to the influence of the Moon negative, 
Chapter 4, page 28; the number 11 in the Kabala shows the influence of the planet 
Neptune, Chapter 4, page 25. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
DOR OTH Y 
DOR OTH Y 
4727 48 1 
4 16 2016 22 8 10 
= 33 = 6 
= 9 = 15 
The number 6 in the Unit system gives the influence of the planet Venus, Chapter 4, 
page 23; whilst the number 15 in the Kabala gives the influence of the planet Saturn, 
Chapter 4, page 26. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
LILY 
LILY 
3 13 1 
12 1012 10 
= 8 
= 44 = 8 
Both numbers the same, 8 in the Unit system shows the planet Saturn, Chapter 4, 
page 26; 8 in the Kabala shows the sign Capricorn, Chapter 4, page 24. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
ADA 
ADA 
14 
1 
14 
1 
= 6 
= 6 
Both numbers are again the same. The 6 in the Unit system and in the Kabala both 
respond to the influence of the planet Venus, Chapter 4, page 23. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
ALICE 
AL IC 
E£E 
13 12 °5 
1 
12 10 11 
5 
= 12 = 3 
= 39 = 12 
18

--- PAGE 20 of 67 ---

19
In the Unit system the number 3 responds to the influence of the planet Jupiter, 
Chapter 4, page 23. In the Kabala the number 12 responds to the vibration on the sign 
Pisces, Chapter 4, page 26. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
    D  A  I  S  Y                     D  A  I   S  Y 
    4  1  1  3   1                     4  1  10  21  10 
      =  10  =  1                        =  46  =  10 
 
  The number 1 in the Unit system shows the influence of the Sun positive, Chapter 4, 
page 28; whilst the number 10 in the Kabala shows the vibration of the planet Uranus, 
Chapter 4, page 25. 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
E  L  I  Z  A  B  E  T  H         E  L  I  Z  A  B  E  T  H 
5  3  1  7  1   2  5  4   8         5  12 10  7  1  2   5  22  8 
        =  36  =  9                        =  72  =  9 
 
  The number is the same with each system. In the Unit system 9 responds to the 
planet Mars, Chapter 4, page 27; whilst in the Kabala it shows forth the influence of 
the sign Aquarius, Chapter 4, page 25. 
 
  Sufficient name illustrations have now been given to demonstrate the principles 
involved and to show the reader how to interpret the Christian or Forename in terms 
of Character. If there is more than one Christian or Forename, then THAT NAME 
WHICH IS USED in preference to the others will be the main significator of the 
character; the other names will show subsidiary influence which will not be anywhere 
near as powerful. 
  There is , however, an ancillary factor which has to be taken into account and that is 
when a Christian or Forename is shortened or an alternative or nick-name given, 
WHICH IS CONSTANTLY IN USE. There will be no lessening of the primary influence of 
the main Christian or Forename, but an addition of the influence of shortened name or 
nick-name, thus: - 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
      T  E  D    (for Edward)             T  E  D    
      4  5  4                            22  5  4   
    =  13  =  4                         =  31  =  4 
  Both come to the same number. 4 in the Unit system is the influence of the Sun, 
negative, Chapter 4, page 28; and 4 in the Kabala is the sign Scorpio, Chapter 4, page 
23. 
   
 
In the Unit system the number 3 responds to the influence of the planet Jupiter, 
Chapter 4, page 23. In the Kabala the number 12 responds to the vibration on the sign 
Pisces, Chapter 4, page 26. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
DAIS Y 
DAI S Y 
4113 1 
4 
1 
10 21 
10 
= 10 = 1 
= 46 = 10 
The number | in the Unit system shows the influence of the Sun positive, Chapter 4, 
page 28; whilst the number 10 in the Kabala shows the vibration of the planet Uranus, 
Chapter 4, page 25. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
ELIZABETH 
ELIZABETH 
53171 25 4 
8 
5 1210 7 12 5 22 8 
= 36 = 9 
= 72 = 9 
The number is the same with each system. In the Unit system 9 responds to the 
planet Mars, Chapter 4, page 27; whilst in the Kabala it shows forth the influence of 
the sign Aquarius, Chapter 4, page 25. 
Sufficient name illustrations have now been given to demonstrate the principles 
involved and to show the reader how to interpret the Christian or Forename in terms 
of Character. If there is more than one Christian or Forename, then THAT NAME 
WHICH IS USED in preference to the others will be the main significator of the 
character; the other names will show subsidiary influence which will not be anywhere 
near as powerful. 
There is , however, an ancillary factor which has to be taken into account and that is 
when a Christian or Forename is shortened or an alternative or nick-name given, 
WHICH IS CONSTANTLY IN USE. There will be no lessening of the primary influence of 
the main Christian or Forename, but an addition of the influence of shortened name or 
nick-name, thus: - 
Unit System 
Kabala 
T E D 
(for Edward) 
T E D 
4 5 4 
22 5 4 
= 13 = 4 
= 31 = 4 
Both come to the same number. 4 in the Unit system is the influence of the Sun, 
negative, Chapter 4, page 28; and 4 in the Kabala is the sign Scorpio, Chapter 4, page 
23. 
19

--- PAGE 21 of 67 ---

20
In this case the number is the same as for the full name of Edward (see page 16) and 
hence there is and accentuation of the planetary or sign influence. 
 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
R  O  B  E  R  T  (Full Name)      R  O  B  E  R  T 
2   7  2  5  2   4                 20  16  2  5  20 22 
   =  22  =  4                        =  85  =  13 
      B  O  B  (Shortened)               B  O  B 
      2   7  2                           2  16  2   
   =  11  =  2                             =  20  
 The shortened name of BOB brings in two different numbers from the full name of 
ROBERT. In the Unit system the number 2 will exercise power and bring in the 
influence of the sign Virgo ; whilst in the Kabala the number 20 will operate and bring 
in the influence of the Moon. These description are given in Chapter 4, pages 22 and 
28 respectively. 
 
     Unit System                            Kabala 
   B  E  T  T  Y (for Elizabeth)         B  E  T  T  Y 
   2  5   4  4  1                      2  5  22 22  10 
    =  16  =  7                         =  61  =  7 
 The number is the same for wither system. In the Unit system it will show the 
influence of the Moon positive, Chapter 4, page 28, and in the Kabala the influence of 
the sign Sagittarius, Chapter 4, page 24. 
 In the case of the full name Elizabeth the number came to 9 (see page 20) and hence 
by using Betty, an added influence is brought into play. 
 
  Sufficient examples have been given here to enable you to work out the numerical 
value of any name by reference to the tables in Chapter 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this case the number is the same as for the full name of Edward (see page 16) and 
hence there is and accentuation of the planetary or sign influence. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
R O B E R T (Full Name) 
ROBERT 
27252 4 
20 16 2 5 2022 
= 22 = 4 
= 85 = 13 
B O B (Shortened) 
B OB 
2 
7 2 
2 16 2 
= ll = 2 
= 20 
The shortened name of BOB brings in two different numbers from the full name of 
ROBERT. In the Unit system the number 2 will exercise power and bring in the 
influence of the sign Virgo ; whilst in the Kabala the number 20 will operate and bring 
in the influence of the Moon. These description are given in Chapter 4, pages 22 and 
28 respectively. 
Unit System 
Kabala 
B E T TY 
(for Elizabeth) 
BETTY 
25 44 1 
2 5 2222 10 
= 16= 7 
= 61 = 7 
The number is the same for wither system. In the Unit system it will show the 
influence of the Moon positive, Chapter 4, page 28, and in the Kabala the influence of 
the sign Sagittarius, Chapter 4, page 24. 
In the case of the full name Elizabeth the number came to 9 (see page 20) and hence 
by using Betty, an added influence is brought into play. 
Sufficient examples have been given here to enable you to work out the numerical 
value of any name by reference to the tables in Chapter 2. 
20

--- PAGE 22 of 67 ---

21
CHAPTER FOUR 
 
NUMBERS AND CHARACTER 
 
  In-so-far as an individual is concerned, the effect that a specific number has upon 
his or her life can be demonstrated in terms of character, of health, of personal 
associations such as marriage, relatives, friends and enemies, of money, whether it be 
earned through work or business, or gained by speculation, investment, gift or legacy, 
of work or vocation itself, of travel, and of mental or artistic ability. 
  The zodiacal or planetary influence of each number from 1 to 22 will give a specific 
vibration and, in terms of character, these will be as shown in the following 
descriptions which have been written as applying to YOU to be the more easily 
explainable and understandable. 
  The preceding chapter explained how to find your own specific number from your 
name; thus you will be able to apply the specific character vibration of that number to 
yourself. In the same way you will be able to learn the characters of others. 
  The number ONE (planetary influence Mercury, S) rules the brain and the mind 
and hence will give good intellectual capacity. It will attract to pursuits and work of a 
mental rather than of a physical character and is associated with learning, education 
and the teaching or training of others, and gives capacity for the holding of executive 
and administrative positions. There is a combination of independence and yet of 
adaptability, a capacity to acquire a myriad of facts and yet be able to coagulate these 
into one fixed line of action should the latter be desired. Knowledge will be gained 
through observation and travel and considerable travel is denoted although much of 
this will be of a short or medium long distance nature rather than of a long distance or 
overseas character. There will be a capacity for writing and certain forms of literary 
work, for journalism and contact with newspapers and associated publications. 
  The number TWO (zodiacal influence the sign Virgo, F) gives you a natural power 
of discrimination and perception which will express itself in a natural manner through 
business and associated channels. You will be able to carry out the details of affairs 
without losing sight of the ultimate goal towards which you are working. You can 
carry out any routine set you by others and, when necessary, can evolve a routine of 
your own proving satisfactory to all concerned. It does not take you long to weigh up 
the pros and cons of affairs and your power of perception enables you to see beneath 
the surface to the truth that others may try to hide. You are appreciative of neatness 
and tidiness and prefer proper discipline to lackadaisical methods. The sign will cause 
you to be critical and you will need to use discretion in the expressing of criticism, for 
anything of a hurtful nature, even though it may be true, could be taken exception to 
by the ones concerned, and misunderstandings could arise. 
  The number THREE (zodiacal influence, the sign Libra,G) gives you a strong 
CHAPTER FOUR 
NUMBERS AND CHARACTER 
In-so-far as an individual is concerned, the effect that a specific number has upon 
his or her life can be demonstrated in terms of character, of health, of personal 
associations such as marriage, relatives, friends and enemies, of money, whether it be 
earned through work or business, or gained by speculation, investment, gift or legacy, 
of work or vocation itself, of travel, and of mental or artistic ability. 
The zodiacal or planetary influence of each number from 1 to 22 will give a specific 
vibration and, in terms of character, these will be as shown in the following 
descriptions which have been written as applying to YOU to be the more easily 
explainable and understandable. 
The preceding chapter explained how to find your own specific number from your 
name; thus you will be able to apply the specific character vibration of that number to 
yourself. In the same way you will be able to learn the characters of others. 
The number ONE (planetary influence Mercury, S) rules the brain and the mind 
and hence will give good intellectual capacity. It will attract to pursuits and work of a 
mental rather than of a physical character and is associated with learning, education 
and the teaching or training of others, and gives capacity for the holding of executive 
and administrative positions. There is a combination of independence and yet of 
adaptability, a capacity to acquire a myriad of facts and yet be able to coagulate these 
into one fixed line of action should the latter be desired. Knowledge will be gained 
through observation and travel and considerable travel is denoted although much of 
this will be of a short or medium long distance nature rather than of a long distance or 
overseas character. There will be a capacity for writing and certain forms of literary 
work, for journalism and contact with newspapers and associated publications. 
The number TWO (zodiacal influence the sign Virgo, F') gives you a natural power 
of discrimination and perception which will express itself in a natural manner through 
business and associated channels. You will be able to carry out the details of affairs 
without losing sight of the ultimate goal towards which you are working. You can 
carry out any routine set you by others and, when necessary, can evolve a routine of 
your own proving satisfactory to all concerned. It does not take you long to weigh up 
the pros and cons of affairs and your power of perception enables you to see beneath 
the surface to the truth that others may try to hide. You are appreciative of neatness 
and tidiness and prefer proper discipline to lackadaisical methods. The sign will cause 
you to be critical and you will need to use discretion in the expressing of criticism, for 
anything of a hurtful nature, even though it may be true, could be taken exception to 
by the ones concerned, and misunderstandings could arise. 
The number THREE (zodiacal influence, the sign Libra,G) gives you a strong 
21

--- PAGE 23 of 67 ---

22
desire for peace and harmony and causes you to be sensitive to anything of a 
deliberately discordant nature. You are naturally courteous and desirous of being on 
good terms with other people, but you will always need to maintain a proper spirit of 
independence so as to prevent certain people from imposing upon you who are aware 
of your natural disinclination to enter into arguments or disputes. A tendency towards 
giving way to the line of least resistance will need to be faced up to and overcome. 
You will be attracted towards the social and public sides of life and should do all you 
can to further these interests. Do not let domestic matters or the attempted domination 
of those in your surroundings have a restrictive influence over you. You can be very 
adaptable but you can also be very easily upset by adverse criticism or temporary 
rebuffs, and inclined to take things more to heart than you should do. 
  The number FOUR (zodiacal influence, the sign Scorpio H) gives you a degree of 
reserve and in certain respects will cause you to be secretive, although this will not 
necessarily interfere with your everyday associations. It shows that you will display 
considerable resourcefulness in the handling of people and affairs and as a result will 
work through difficulties somewhat more easily than may be anticipated, either by 
yourself or others. 
  You will express more resistance and fighting capacity than those around you may 
recognize, and should anyone attempt to take an unfair advantage of you they will be 
extremely surprised at the resistance you will put forth in the protecting of your own 
interests. You have the courage of your own convictions to say and do the things you 
consider to be correct, will always try to push ahead with affairs in your own way and 
will not let others impose upon you or force you to do things against your own 
desires. 
  The number FIVE (planetary influence, Jupiter,V) will give you a broad and 
tolerant view upon life and will strengthen your spirit of comradeship. You will 
always be willing to help others in trouble but will need to maintain commonsense as 
there will be times when certain persons will seek to take an unfair advantage of your 
goodness of spirit. Religious and philosophical matters will appeal to you, there will 
be a strong desire for travel and it is possible for the missionary spirit to be strong. 
The spirit of optimism will invariably be marked but on occasions can cause you to 
experience loss when you permit yourself to take certain possibilities too much for 
granted or rely too much upon the element of luck or chance. The main essential to 
bear in mind is that whilst keeping optimistic you should also be practical. 
  The number SIX (planetary influence, Venus T) being ruled by the planet of 
affection, of love and of beauty, will cause your desire for companionship to be 
exceedingly strong and, therefore, all matters to do with the affections, with marriage 
and with friendships will prove to be very important and a great deal of your 
happiness or unhappiness in life will depend upon the nature of the ties and 
associations which you form. If these are of a constructive and helpful nature they 
desire for peace and harmony and causes you to be sensitive to anything of a 
deliberately discordant nature. You are naturally courteous and desirous of being on 
good terms with other people, but you will always need to maintain a proper spirit of 
independence so as to prevent certain people from imposing upon you who are aware 
of your natural disinclination to enter into arguments or disputes. A tendency towards 
giving way to the line of least resistance will need to be faced up to and overcome. 
You will be attracted towards the social and public sides of life and should do all you 
can to further these interests. Do not let domestic matters or the attempted domination 
of those in your surroundings have a restrictive influence over you. You can be very 
adaptable but you can also be very easily upset by adverse criticism or temporary 
rebuffs, and inclined to take things more to heart than you should do. 
The number FOUR (zodiacal influence, the sign Scorpio H) gives you a degree of 
reserve and in certain respects will cause you to be secretive, although this will not 
necessarily interfere with your everyday associations. It shows that you will display 
considerable resourcefulness in the handling of people and affairs and as a result will 
work through difficulties somewhat more easily than may be anticipated, either by 
yourself or others. 
You will express more resistance and fighting capacity than those around you may 
recognize, and should anyone attempt to take an unfair advantage of you they will be 
extremely surprised at the resistance you will put forth in the protecting of your own 
interests. You have the courage of your own convictions to say and do the things you 
consider to be correct, will always try to push ahead with affairs in your own way and 
will not let others impose upon you or force you to do things against your own 
desires. 
The number FIVE (planetary influence, Jupiter, 
V) will give you a broad and 
tolerant view upon life and will strengthen your spirit of comradeship. You will 
always be willing to help others in trouble but will need to maintain commonsense as 
there will be times when certain persons will seek to take an unfair advantage of your 
goodness of spirit. Religious and philosophical matters will appeal to you, there will 
be a strong desire for travel and it is possible for the missionary spirit to be strong. 
The spirit of optimism will invariably be marked but on occasions can cause you to 
experience loss when you permit yourself to take certain possibilities too much for 
granted or rely too much upon the element of luck or chance. The main essential to 
bear in mind is that whilst keeping optimistic you should also be practical. 
The number SIX (planetary influence, Venus 
‘!’) being ruled by the planet of 
affection, of love and of beauty, will cause your desire for companionship to be 
exceedingly strong and, therefore, all matters to do with the affections, with marriage 
and with friendships will prove to be very important and a great deal of your 
happiness or unhappiness in life will depend upon the nature of the ties and 
associations which you form. If these are of a constructive and helpful nature they 
22

--- PAGE 24 of 67 ---

23
will bring happiness and enable you to make considerable progress in life, but should 
they be of an impulsive and unwise character, then they will bring unhappiness, 
depression and an interference with your progress. There will be an appreciation of 
the artistic side of affairs even if circumstances prevent you from developing any 
form of art yourself. Sometimes the artistic faculty will find scope in painting, 
decoration, etc., even in the preparing of foods in a manner both appetizing and 
appealing to the sight as well as to the taste. 
  The number SEVEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Sagittarius U) causes you to be 
frank and outspoken with a very strong desire for liberty and freedom of thought and 
action, as well as for the maintaining of personal independence. Under normal 
circumstance you will usually adhere to the ordinary customs and conventions of life, 
but should affairs become too monotonous, or should there be any degree of what 
appears to you to be unfair restriction or limitation, a spirit of rebellion will occur and 
you will then say and do things and brings about changes without letting the 
immediate results affect you too strongly. 
  You are naturally active, energetic and optimistic but you will need to control 
impulsive and hasty inclinations whilst you should not give way unduly to 
restlessness. You are naturally self-reliant and you can inspire others by the example 
you set. An interest in sport is denoted. 
  The number EIGHT (zodiacal influence, the sign Capricorn J) causes you to be 
ambitious, practical and in some ways acquisitive. There will be a more or less natural 
gravitation towards the holding of positions of authority and trust, but you should not 
permit others to shift unfair burdens of responsibility onto your shoulders and then 
take the credit and benefits for themselves. It is a sign showing that you can work 
hard and long and will invariably set an example  to others that they will find it 
exceptionally difficult to emulate. 
  For this reason you will also experience difficulties when you want others to carry 
out work for you, as they will want others to carry out work for you, as they will 
never do things in quite the same way as yourself or take quite the same pains you do, 
nor will they exhibit a like degree of thoroughness. 
  Sometimes you will know what it is to feel depressed and unhappy, and will 
temporarily lose heart and wonder if there is anything in life worth working for. 
During these periods do not shun the company of others but take part in social affairs. 
 
  The number NINE (zodiacal influence, the sign Aquarius K) shows that you are 
thoughtful, reflective and studious. Many of your thoughts and ideas will be in 
advance of those of your companions and yet will not interfere with your friendships 
and associations, in fact you will find that those with whom you associate will often 
look to you for advice regarding their problems and you may need to use a degree of 
firmness to prevent imposition. Discretion will be required regarding the taking on of 
will bring happiness and enable you to make considerable progress in life, but should 
they be of an impulsive and unwise character, then they will bring unhappiness, 
depression and an interference with your progress. There will be an appreciation of 
the artistic side of affairs even if circumstances prevent you from developing any 
form of art yourself. Sometimes the artistic faculty will find scope in painting, 
decoration, etc., even in the preparing of foods in a manner both appetizing and 
appealing to the sight as well as to the taste. 
The number SEVEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Sagittarius U) causes you to be 
frank and outspoken with a very strong desire for liberty and freedom of thought and 
action, as well as for the maintaining of personal independence. Under normal 
circumstance you will usually adhere to the ordinary customs and conventions of life, 
but should affairs become too monotonous, or should there be any degree of what 
appears to you to be unfair restriction or limitation, a spirit of rebellion will occur and 
you will then say and do things and brings about changes without letting the 
immediate results affect you too strongly. 
You are naturally active, energetic and optimistic but you will need to control 
impulsive and hasty inclinations whilst you should not give way unduly to 
restlessness. You are naturally self-reliant and you can inspire others by the example 
you set. An interest in sport is denoted. 
The number EIGHT (zodiacal influence, the sign Capricorn J) causes you to be 
ambitious, practical and in some ways acquisitive. There will be a more or less natural 
gravitation towards the holding of positions of authority and trust, but you should not 
permit others to shift unfair burdens of responsibility onto your shoulders and then 
take the credit and benefits for themselves. It is a sign showing that you can work 
hard and long and will invariably set an example to others that they will find it 
exceptionally difficult to emulate. 
For this reason you will also experience difficulties when you want others to carry 
out work for you, as they will want others to carry out work for you, as they will 
never do things in quite the same way as yourself or take quite the same pains you do, 
nor will they exhibit a like degree of thoroughness. 
Sometimes you will know what it is to feel depressed and unhappy, and will 
temporarily lose heart and wonder if there is anything in life worth working for. 
During these periods do not shun the company of others but take part in social affairs. 
The number NINE (zodiacal influence, the sign Aquarius K) shows that you are 
thoughtful, reflective and studious. Many of your thoughts and ideas will be in 
advance of those of your companions and yet will not interfere with your friendships 
and associations, in fact you will find that those with whom you associate will often 
look to you for advice regarding their problems and you may need to use a degree of 
firmness to prevent imposition. Discretion will be required regarding the taking on of 
23

--- PAGE 25 of 67 ---

24
obligations and liabilities, especially of a financial character, where friends and 
relatives are concerned. 
  From a general standpoint the sign cause you to be cheerful, sincere and optimistic, 
but in a quiet, rather than an ostentatious manner. You have some very strong likes 
and dislikes, and will be very firm where your principles, convictions and lines of 
action are concerned, and will put up a deal of resistance when others try to force you 
to do things or to agree to conditions that are against your own inclinations. 
  The number TEN (planetary influence, Uranus X) shows that somewhat erratic 
tendencies are denoted. Whilst there will be an undoubted brilliance of thought and 
inspiration, a capacity for making quick and constructive decisions in an emergency, 
and for carrying these decisions into action without loss of time, under ordinary 
circumstances when nothing of very great importance is manifesting, there will be a 
difficulty in exercising adaptability to such conditions and hence there will be a 
making of impulsive and unwise decisions regarding changes and in connection with 
prevailing associations. As a result sudden upsets and disputes will occur, there will 
be a disturbing of working or business interests and a danger of a loss of job or 
position, whilst personal ties and associations can be strained, sometimes to actual 
breaking point. In many respects you will be a “law unto yourself” and will go your 
own way irrespective of the desires or commands of others; in fact any attempt on the 
part of people to force you to follow their way will only make you go in the opposite 
direction. 
  The number ELEVEN (planetary influence, Neptune Y) will intensify your insight 
into affairs and enable you to gauge the outcome of a given line of action in an almost 
uncanny manner. It shows that you will be able, sometimes without hardly being 
aware of it, to influence other people by your mental and oral suggestions and in so 
doing will get them to react and do things that are in accord with your own desires. 
Discretion will, however, be required in the using of this power of suggestion, for 
otherwise, should you be tempted to influence other people to do things to suit a 
selfish end you could bring a tantalising and unpleasant future reaction. You will have 
much latent psychic ability, which you can express as a result of proper development, 
for the planet gives a capacity for chairvoyance, sometimes for trance mediumship, 
and also for psychometry. 
  The number TWELVE (zodiacal influence, the sign Pisces L) shows that you are 
idealistic and peaceably inclined. You can, however, be rather sensitive and there will 
be extremes of temperament and ability. Sometimes you will be extremely cheerful 
and optimistic and when you express this side of your nature, together with a degree 
of sympathy and understanding for others who are in trouble or difficulty, you will 
create considerable popularity and will make a great deal of progress. 
  On the other hand you can give way to extreme sensitiveness and allow yourself to 
feel hurt at the careless or thoughtless speech or actions of others and will try to cover 
obligations and liabilities, especially of a financial character, where friends and 
relatives are concerned. 
From a general standpoint the sign cause you to be cheerful, sincere and optimistic, 
but in a quiet, rather than an ostentatious manner. You have some very strong likes 
and dislikes, and will be very firm where your principles, convictions and lines of 
action are concerned, and will put up a deal of resistance when others try to force you 
to do things or to agree to conditions that are against your own inclinations. 
The number TEN (planetary influence, Uranus X) shows that somewhat erratic 
tendencies are denoted. Whilst there will be an undoubted brilliance of thought and 
inspiration, a capacity for making quick and constructive decisions in an emergency, 
and for carrying these decisions into action without loss of time, under ordinary 
circumstances when nothing of very great importance is manifesting, there will be a 
difficulty in exercising adaptability to such conditions and hence there will be a 
making of impulsive and unwise decisions regarding changes and in connection with 
prevailing associations. As a result sudden upsets and disputes will occur, there will 
be a disturbing of working or business interests and a danger of a loss of job or 
position, whilst personal ties and associations can be strained, sometimes to actual 
breaking point. In many respects you will be a “law unto yourself” and will go your 
own way irrespective of the desires or commands of others; in fact any attempt on the 
part of people to force you to follow their way will only make you go in the opposite 
direction. 
The number ELEVEN (planetary influence, Neptune Y) will intensify your insight 
into affairs and enable you to gauge the outcome of a given line of action in an almost 
uncanny manner. It shows that you will be able, sometimes without hardly being 
aware of it, to influence other people by your mental and oral suggestions and in so 
doing will get them to react and do things that are in accord with your own desires. 
Discretion will, however, be required in the using of this power of suggestion, for 
otherwise, should you be tempted to influence other people to do things to suit a 
selfish end you could bring a tantalising and unpleasant future reaction. You will have 
much latent psychic ability, which you can express as a result of proper development, 
for the planet gives a capacity for chairvoyance, sometimes for trance mediumship, 
and also for psychometry. 
The number TWELVE (zodiacal influence, the sign Pisces L) shows that you are 
idealistic and peaceably inclined. You can, however, be rather sensitive and there will 
be extremes of temperament and ability. Sometimes you will be extremely cheerful 
and optimistic and when you express this side of your nature, together with a degree 
of sympathy and understanding for others who are in trouble or difficulty, you will 
create considerable popularity and will make a great deal of progress. 
On the other hand you can give way to extreme sensitiveness and allow yourself to 
feel hurt at the careless or thoughtless speech or actions of others and will try to cover 
24

--- PAGE 26 of 67 ---

25
this up by expressing an apparent air of indifference which will be rather puzzling to 
those around you, who will not be aware of having done anything to warrant being 
ignored. When you permit anything of this nature you will lose some of your 
popularity and certain of your friends, and misunderstandings will occur in a way you 
do not at all desire. 
  The number THIRTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Aries A) causes you to be 
independent, self-willed, active and desirous of being in command of affairs. You are 
courageous by nature and not likely to be afraid of facing danger when it arises, but 
you should not create conditions that bring it or that should not create conditions that 
bring it or that would lead to disturbing and unpleasant consequences. The combining 
of intellectual with physical activity will enable you to effect progress and to bring 
altered conditions in accord with your own desires. You can set an example to others 
that they will be pleased to follow when you combine tact with enthusiasm. If, 
however, you let aggressive inclinations, undue independence, or impulse, decide 
your line of action you can create unfriendliness, can lose support and hence interfere 
with your normal progress. 
  You will always want to fight against conditions of an unfair and restrictive nature. 
  The number FOURTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Taurus,B) causes you to be 
practical, industrious, and in many ways capable of exercising considerable patience 
where the more important interests of life are concerned. You have ability to plan out 
affairs ahead and to allow proper time for the maturing of your plans. You can also 
bring about a perfecting of the details relating to material and financial matters. Quite 
a number of your desires and wishes will be associated with money. You possess the 
courage of your own convictions and opposition from others will only tend to fix 
them more firmly in your mind. At the same time it would be wrong to term your 
disposition an unreasonable one, as you are prepared to consider the suggestions of 
others on their own merits, and if they appeal to you, adopt them. You will do so 
however, as and when you see fit. 
  The number FIFTEEN (planetary influence, Saturn W) in its influences over your 
character shows that you are serious, reflective, somewhat introspective and yet have 
the inner capacity to hold positions of responsibility and authority and to carry out 
duties efficiently. Life will not always bee easy for you. You will have to fight against 
restrictions, limitations and delays, but by the exercising of patience you will find 
yourself overcoming the varying difficulties that confront you, and as a result of 
persistence will bring about progress. Saturn rules the latter part of life and distinctly 
shows that this part of life will bring the rewards or disappointments of the efforts, or 
lack of effort, during the first half of life. It is a planet that attracts towards political 
and kindred affairs and gives very great organizing ability. It invariable denotes that a 
very advanced age will be reached and that time will be on your side in the making of 
plans and in the putting forth of effort, therefore you can afford to be painstaking and 
this up by expressing an apparent air of indifference which will be rather puzzling to 
those around you, who will not be aware of having done anything to warrant being 
ignored. When you permit anything of this nature you will lose some of your 
popularity and certain of your friends, and misunderstandings will occur in a way you 
do not at all desire. 
The number THIRTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Aries A) causes you to be 
independent, self-willed, active and desirous of being in command of affairs. You are 
courageous by nature and not likely to be afraid of facing danger when it arises, but 
you should not create conditions that bring it or that should not create conditions that 
bring it or that would lead to disturbing and unpleasant consequences. The combining 
of intellectual with physical activity will enable you to effect progress and to bring 
altered conditions in accord with your own desires. You can set an example to others 
that they will be pleased to follow when you combine tact with enthusiasm. If, 
however, you let aggressive inclinations, undue independence, or impulse, decide 
your line of action you can create unfriendliness, can lose support and hence interfere 
with your normal progress. 
You will always want to fight against conditions of an unfair and restrictive nature. 
The number FOURTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Taurus,B) causes you to be 
practical, industrious, and in many ways capable of exercising considerable patience 
where the more important interests of life are concerned. You have ability to plan out 
affairs ahead and to allow proper time for the maturing of your plans. You can also 
bring about a perfecting of the details relating to material and financial matters. Quite 
a number of your desires and wishes will be associated with money. You possess the 
courage of your own convictions and opposition from others will only tend to fix 
them more firmly in your mind. At the same time it would be wrong to term your 
disposition an unreasonable one, as you are prepared to consider the suggestions of 
others on their own merits, and if they appeal to you, adopt them. You will do so 
however, as and when you see fit. 
The number FIFTEEN (planetary influence, Saturn W) in its influences over your 
character shows that you are serious, reflective, somewhat introspective and yet have 
the inner capacity to hold positions of responsibility and authority and to carry out 
duties efficiently. Life will not always bee easy for you. You will have to fight against 
restrictions, limitations and delays, but by the exercising of patience you will find 
yourself overcoming the varying difficulties that confront you, and as a result of 
persistence will bring about progress. Saturn rules the latter part of life and distinctly 
shows that this part of life will bring the rewards or disappointments of the efforts, or 
lack of effort, during the first half of life. It is a planet that attracts towards political 
and kindred affairs and gives very great organizing ability. It invariable denotes that a 
very advanced age will be reached and that time will be on your side in the making of 
plans and in the putting forth of effort, therefore you can afford to be painstaking and 
25

--- PAGE 27 of 67 ---

26
will always be able to take the long rather than the short view of affairs. 
  The number SIXTEEN (planetary influence, Mars U) mainly signifies so far as your 
character is concerned, that you have courage. This will be of both a physical and a 
mental nature and no matter what the odds may be you will always face them and do 
your best to overcome your adversary, whether it be circumstances or a person. 
Nevertheless, it will not be easy to restrain impulse or to tone down quickness of 
temper and as a result of giving way to these you will experience many upsets and 
changes, and your emotional and home life will not always be happy. You are suited 
for adventure, for exploration, for taking part in anything that is active and that that 
keeps you on the move. When circumstance temporarily thrust you into a kind of 
quiet backwater you will rebel, sometimes violently and, figuratively speaking, will 
either do the disappearing trick yourself or be thrown out by others who resent their 
peace and quietness being disturbed. 
  The number SEVENTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Gemini C) indicates that 
you are active both physically and mentally. You will have a strong desire for variety 
and change but it will be unwise to allow this desire to get out of hand. An effort 
should always be made to maintain continuity of thought and action, and you should 
not alter objectives unless there is some very real and weighty reason for so doing. 
Otherwise you will find that you can interfere with the progress of affairs, can put 
forth a lot of effort and get very little in return. You should regulate the number of 
subjects you take up, for if you have too many things on hand at one time certain of 
them must perforce be neglected, particularly when circumstances compel attention 
upon those of greater importance. Hence valuable time, thought and effort will be 
sacrificed which has been devoted to those interests being given up. 
  The number EIGHTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Cancer D) signifies that there 
is a strong degree of emotion in your nature. You have a very vivid imagination and 
will be able to recall clearly and easily many of the events and conditions which have 
occurred in the past but should not allow yourself to dwell too much upon the past. 
You should utilize the knowledge gained from past experiences, to deal with and to 
regulate present affairs, and to plan out future activities. Matters to do with the home 
and family side of life will influence many of your decisions and actions, whilst there 
will be a great appreciation of domestic comfort and making others feel at home when 
they are in your surroundings. The sign gives you a very memory, much tenacity of 
thought and purpose and enables you to use your imagination so as to create publicity 
either for yourself or for others. 
  The number NINETEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Leo E) gives you a great deal 
of natural ambition causing you to be desirous of making good headway and progress 
in life. There will always be a more or less automatic gravitation towards the 
occupying of a central position according to your best that you can, no matter what 
circumstances of life arise, and will invariably try to appear at your best when you are 
will always be able to take the long rather than the short view of affairs. 
The number SIXTEEN (planetary influence, Mars U) mainly signifies so far as your 
character is concerned, that you have courage. This will be of both a physical and a 
mental nature and no matter what the odds may be you will always face them and do 
your best to overcome your adversary, whether it be circumstances or a person. 
Nevertheless, it will not be easy to restrain impulse or to tone down quickness of 
temper and as a result of giving way to these you will experience many upsets and 
changes, and your emotional and home life will not always be happy. You are suited 
for adventure, for exploration, for taking part in anything that is active and that that 
keeps you on the move. When circumstance temporarily thrust you into a kind of 
quiet backwater you will rebel, sometimes violently and, figuratively speaking, will 
either do the disappearing trick yourself or be thrown out by others who resent their 
peace and quietness being disturbed. 
The number SEVENTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Gemini C) indicates that 
you are active both physically and mentally. You will have a strong desire for variety 
and change but it will be unwise to allow this desire to get out of hand. An effort 
should always be made to maintain continuity of thought and action, and you should 
not alter objectives unless there is some very real and weighty reason for so doing. 
Otherwise you will find that you can interfere with the progress of affairs, can put 
forth a lot of effort and get very little in return. You should regulate the number of 
subjects you take up, for if you have too many things on hand at one time certain of 
them must perforce be neglected, particularly when circumstances compel attention 
upon those of greater importance. Hence valuable time, thought and effort will be 
sacrificed which has been devoted to those interests being given up. 
The number EIGHTEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Cancer D) signifies that there 
is a strong degree of emotion in your nature. You have a very vivid imagination and 
will be able to recall clearly and easily many of the events and conditions which have 
occurred in the past but should not allow yourself to dwell too much upon the past. 
You should utilize the knowledge gained from past experiences, to deal with and to 
regulate present affairs, and to plan out future activities. Matters to do with the home 
and family side of life will influence many of your decisions and actions, whilst there 
will be a great appreciation of domestic comfort and making others feel at home when 
they are in your surroundings. The sign gives you a very memory, much tenacity of 
thought and purpose and enables you to use your imagination so as to create publicity 
either for yourself or for others. 
The number NINETEEN (zodiacal influence, the sign Leo E) gives you a great deal 
of natural ambition causing you to be desirous of making good headway and progress 
in life. There will always be a more or less automatic gravitation towards the 
occupying of a central position according to your best that you can, no matter what 
circumstances of life arise, and will invariably try to appear at your best when you are 
26

--- PAGE 28 of 67 ---

27
with others. You have a natural degree of pride and dignity and can express the 
principle of loyalty towards others and towards any cause you may espouse. There 
will, however, be times when you will need to control hasty and passionate impulses 
and inclinations, for should these be given way to, setbacks and downfalls can occur. 
Nevertheless, once you realize you have made a mistake or error of judgment you can 
take quick steps to bring about a retrieving of the situation. Your power of 
organization is good and will help you in the handling of business and private affairs. 
  The number TWENTY (planetary influence, the Moon R) in its rule over your 
character shows that there will be alternate periods of activity, enthusiasm and 
expression with others when you will feel you want to do nothing, when you will  
lack incentive and when there will seem to be no inspiration. This ebb and flow of  
feeling and action is quite in sympathy with the phases of the Moon, which show and 
upsurge of power and strength as it goes from the New to the Full and then a decrease 
of energy until apparent stagnation occurs as the Moon goes through the waning 
period from Full to New. Home, family and domestic interests will take a deal of your 
thought and attention, whilst this lunar influence is favourable for matters to do with 
the land, agriculture, dairy farming, etc. You will have a natural sympathy for others, 
and also for animals, especially when they are suffering, for what may be called the 
“mothering spirit” will always be strong. 
  The number TWENTY-ONE (planetary influence, the Sun Q) in its influence over 
the character draws out the sense of power and hence you will always have the desire 
to exercise authority and a degree of domination over others, and during the course of 
your life’s development you will do so. Nevertheless, when you are in a position of 
authority you will need to see that you use this in a constructive and proper manner, 
resisting any inclination to be autocratic or domineering. If the latter is given way to, 
not only will you make enemies, but you will interfere with the finer rewards which 
life can give you. You will be attracted to and have an interest in children and in 
education, art, theatrical and associated interests and be able to do quite a deal of good 
if you live up to the higher dictates of your nature. The principle of leadership will be 
marked and if used constructively will bring recognition and possibly fame. 
  The number TWENTY-TWO (planetary influence, the Earth @) shows that the 
season of the year when you were born will have a determining influence over your 
character. If born in the Spring you will initiative, and the spirit of enterprise will be 
marked throughout the course of your life, but you will find yourself having to learn 
many lessons in your handling of affairs and in your association with other people 
before you acquire perception and discrimination. 
  If born in the Summer you will have organizing ability and the capacity to hold 
positions of authority. You will have a degree of pride and dignity and it will be 
relatively easy to obtain recognition of your abilities and the years from 40 to 60 will 
bring you to the zenith of your power. 
with others. You have a natural degree of pride and dignity and can express the 
principle of loyalty towards others and towards any cause you may espouse. There 
will, however, be times when you will need to control hasty and passionate impulses 
and inclinations, for should these be given way to, setbacks and downfalls can occur. 
Nevertheless, once you realize you have made a mistake or error of judgment you can 
take quick steps to bring about a retrieving of the situation. Your power of 
organization is good and will help you in the handling of business and private affairs. 
The number TWENTY (planetary influence, the Moon R) in its rule over your 
character shows that there will be alternate periods of activity, enthusiasm and 
expression with others when you will feel you want to do nothing, when you will 
lack incentive and when there will seem to be no inspiration. This ebb and flow of 
feeling and action is quite in sympathy with the phases of the Moon, which show and 
upsurge of power and strength as it goes from the New to the Full and then a decrease 
of energy until apparent stagnation occurs as the Moon goes through the waning 
period from Full to New. Home, family and domestic interests will take a deal of your 
thought and attention, whilst this lunar influence is favourable for matters to do with 
the land, agriculture, dairy farming, etc. You will have a natural sympathy for others, 
and also for animals, especially when they are suffering, for what may be called the 
“mothering spirit” will always be strong. 
The number TWENTY-ONE (planetary influence, the Sun Q) in its influence over 
the character draws out the sense of power and hence you will always have the desire 
to exercise authority and a degree of domination over others, and during the course of 
your life’s development you will do so. Nevertheless, when you are in a position of 
authority you will need to see that you use this in a constructive and proper manner, 
resisting any inclination to be autocratic or domineering. If the latter is given way to, 
not only will you make enemies, but you will interfere with the finer rewards which 
life can give you. You will be attracted to and have an interest in children and in 
education, art, theatrical and associated interests and be able to do quite a deal of good 
if you live up to the higher dictates of your nature. The principle of leadership will be 
marked and if used constructively will bring recognition and possibly fame. 
The number TWENTY-TWO (planetary influence, the Earth @) shows that the 
season of the year when you were born will have a determining influence over your 
character. If born in the Spring you will initiative, and the spirit of enterprise will be 
marked throughout the course of your life, but you will find yourself having to learn 
many lessons in your handling of affairs and in your association with other people 
before you acquire perception and discrimination. 
If born in the Summer you will have organizing ability and the capacity to hold 
positions of authority. You will have a degree of pride and dignity and it will be 
relatively easy to obtain recognition of your abilities and the years from 40 to 60 will 
bring you to the zenith of your power. 
27

--- PAGE 29 of 67 ---

28
  If born in the Autumn you will have quite a deal of natural knowledge and 
understanding, the factors of comparison, discrimination and arbitration will be the 
key-notes of your life, but you will need to set determinative aims if you are to make 
real progress and you will want a degree of companionship. 
  If born in the Winter you will have the wisdom of the ages. Many times you will be 
lonely because others will not reach up to your standard of thought and 
comprehension. The first half of life will be hard, but the second half can bring a 
realizing of earlier ambitions and desires. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If born in the Autumn you will have quite a deal of natural knowledge and 
understanding, the factors of comparison, discrimination and arbitration will be the 
key-notes of your life, but you will need to set determinative aims if you are to make 
real progress and you will want a degree of companionship. 
If born in the Winter you will have the wisdom of the ages. Many times you will be 
lonely because others will not reach up to your standard of thought and 
comprehension. The first half of life will be hard, but the second half can bring a 
realizing of earlier ambitions and desires. 
28

--- PAGE 30 of 67 ---

29
CHAPTER FIVE 
 
YOUR LOVE AND MARRIAGE NUMBER 
 
  In all the interests of life those to do with love and marriage are by far the most 
important, ranking equal to health on the one hand and to money on the other. The 
desire for companionship and affection is invariably exceedingly strong in the human 
make-up and much of the happiness or unhappiness in life will spring from the 
making of either a satisfactory attachment, leading to a successful marriage, or to the 
forming of an unwise association leading to emotional upsets and a possible 
frustration of marriage or to the bringing about of an unsuitable marriage with 
subsequent divorce. 
  When we know our own love and marriage number we become aware of our own 
prospects and this knowledge, if used correctly, can aid us in mitigating or even 
offsetting the unfavourable possibilities and of assisting those of a constructive and 
helpful nature. 
  By knowing the love and marriage number and its attributes of the prospective or 
actual partner, we are enabled in the former instance to see whether the mutual 
vibrations are helpful or the reverse and if necessary to make a decision; whilst in the 
latter instance, by knowing the potentialities of the marriage partner’s love and 
marriage number, we are enabled, if we so choose, to act so that there is mitigating of 
adverse significations, thus helping in the creating of greater harmony and hence of 
greater love and compassion, or, if the combination is harmonious, to bring about a 
realising of mutual desires and wishes where children, social and public interests, and 
other matters of importance are concerned. 
  To know our love and marriage number it is necessary to take ALL our Christian or 
Forenames and to obtain the totals of the numbers from both the systems, the Unit 
system and the Kabala—the former system being used to find the harmonies and 
antipathies between numbers, and the latter system giving the description of love and 
marital possibilities according to the planetary or zodiacal influence that corresponds 
to the number.  
  Of course, if one only has one Christian or Forename then the ultimate number 
derived from the addition of all the numbers of the letters of that name, as shows in 
chapter Three, will apply. Thus, in the case of the name EDWARD (see page xx), the 
total of which is 4 in each system, the 4 of the Unit system applied to the Table 
showing harmonies, antipathies, etc., on page 60,signifies that 4 vibrates to and 
harmonies with 6, attracts those whose number is 1 or 8, disagrees with or is 
antipathetic to those whose number is 3 or 5, and is passive to the charms, virtues or 
vices of those whose number is 2, 7 or 9. 
   
CHAPTER FIVE 
YOUR LOVE AND MARRIAGE NUMBER 
In all the interests of life those to do with love and marriage are by far the most 
important, ranking equal to health on the one hand and to money on the other. The 
desire for companionship and affection is invariably exceedingly strong in the human 
make-up and much of the happiness or unhappiness in life will spring from the 
making of either a satisfactory attachment, leading to a successful marriage, or to the 
forming of an unwise association leading to emotional upsets and a possible 
frustration of marriage or to the bringing about of an unsuitable marriage with 
subsequent divorce. 
When we know our own love and marriage number we become aware of our own 
prospects and this knowledge, if used correctly, can aid us in mitigating or even 
offsetting the unfavourable possibilities and of assisting those of a constructive and 
helpful nature. 
By knowing the love and marriage number and its attributes of the prospective or 
actual partner, we are enabled in the former instance to see whether the mutual 
vibrations are helpful or the reverse and if necessary to make a decision; whilst in the 
latter instance, by knowing the potentialities of the marriage partner’s love and 
marriage number, we are enabled, if we so choose, to act so that there is mitigating of 
adverse significations, thus helping in the creating of greater harmony and hence of 
greater love and compassion, or, if the combination is harmonious, to bring about a 
realising of mutual desires and wishes where children, social and public interests, and 
other matters of importance are concerned. 
To know our love and marriage number it is necessary to take ALL our Christian or 
Forenames and to obtain the totals of the numbers from both the systems, the Unit 
system and the Kabala—the former system being used to find the harmonies and 
antipathies between numbers, and the latter system giving the description of love and 
marital possibilities according to the planetary or zodiacal influence that corresponds 
to the number. 
Of course, if one only has one Christian or Forename then the ultimate number 
derived from the addition of all the numbers of the letters of that name, as shows in 
chapter Three, will apply. Thus, in the case of the name EDWARD (see page xx), the 
total of which is 4 in each system, the 4 of the Unit system applied to the Table 
showing harmonies, antipathies, etc., on page 60,signifies that 4 vibrates to and 
harmonies with 6, attracts those whose number is | or 8, disagrees with or is 
antipathetic to those whose number is 3 or 5, and is passive to the charms, virtues or 
vices of those whose number is 2, 7 or 9. 
29

--- PAGE 31 of 67 ---

30
When there are two or more Christian or Forenames, then each name must be taken 
separately, and the total of each added together so as to obtain a second Unit and 
Kabala total. This is performed as follows:  
Unit System 
E  D  W  A  R  D                 W  I  L  L  I  A  M 
5  4   6   1  2  4                  6   1  3  3  1  1  4 
   =  22  =  4                       =  19  =  10  =  1 
                        4  +  1  =  5 
  The number 5 therefore becomes the love and marriage number, and the numbers 
that harmonize, disagree with it, or are neutral, are found in the Table of Harmonies 
and Antipathies, page 32. 
Kabala 
E  D  W  A  R  D                 W  I  L  L  I  A  M 
5  4   6   1  20  4                 6  10 12  12 10  1  13 
   =  40  =  4                         =  64  =  10   
                        4  +  10  =  14 
  The number 14 being the number shown according to the Kabala, the indications 
regarding love and marriage are influenced by the sign Taurus. 
  The attributes of each number under the Kabala system are given later in this 
chapter. 
  A few more examples will be given so that the reader may become familiar with the 
process. 
Unit System 
R  O  B  E  R  T                       H  E  N  R  Y 
2  7   2  5  2  4                        8   5  5  2   1 
   =  22  =  4                             =  21  =  3 
                        4  +  3  =  7 
  See harmonies, etc., in Table on page 32. 
Kabala 
R  O  B  E  R  T                      H  E  N  R  Y 
20 16  2   5  20 22                      8  5  14  20  10 
   =  85  =  13                           =  57  =  12   
                       13  +  12  =  25  =  7 
  As the sum of the two name totals comes to over 22, i.e. to 25, it must be further 
reduced by the addition of the units so as to bring to 22 or under. In this instance it 
reduces to 7 and this will be the love and marriage number according to the Kabala. 
 
 
 
When there are two or more Christian or Forenames, then each name must be taken 
separately, and the total of each added together so as to obtain a second Unit and 
Kabala total. This is performed as follows: 
Unit System 
E DWAR D 
WiItILLtIAM 
5 4 
6 
12 4 
6 
13 3 11 4 
= 22 = 4 
= 19 = 10 = 1 
4+ 1 = 5 
The number 5 therefore becomes the love and marriage number, and the numbers 
that harmonize, disagree with it, or are neutral, are found in the Table of Harmonies 
and Antipathies, page 32. 
Kabala 
ED WAR D 
WILLIAM 
5 4 
6 
1 
20 4 
6 1012 1210 1 
13 
= 40 = 4 
= 64 = 10 
4 + 10 = 14 
The number 14 being the number shown according to the Kabala, the indications 
regarding love and marriage are influenced by the sign Taurus. 
The attributes of each number under the Kabala system are given later in this 
chapter. 
A few more examples will be given so that the reader may become familiar with the 
process. 
Unit System 
R OBER T 
H EN RY 
27 25 2 4 
8 552 1 
= 22 = 4 
= 21 = 3 
4+ 3 = 7 
See harmonies, etc., in Table on page 32. 
Kabala 
R OBER T 
H EN RY 
2016 2 
5 2022 
8 5 14 20 10 
= 85 = 13 
= 57 = 12 
13 + 12 = 25 = 7 
As the sum of the two name totals comes to over 22, i.e. to 25, it must be further 
reduced by the addition of the units so as to bring to 22 or under. In this instance it 
reduces to 7 and this will be the love and marriage number according to the Kabala. 
30

--- PAGE 32 of 67 ---

31
Unit System 
A  L  I  C  E                        J  E  A  N  N  E 
1  3   1  2  5                        1  5   1  5  5  4 
   =  12  =  3                           =  21  =  3 
                        4  +  3  =  7 
  See harmonies, etc., in Table on this page. 
Kabala 
A  L  I  C  E                        J  E  A  N  N  E 
1  12  10 11  5                       10  5  1  14  14  5 
   =  39  =  12                          =  49  =  13   
                       12  +  13  =  25  =  7 
  The same process is repeated with these totals as with the previous name and hence 
the vibration will be the dame, love and marriage being under the influence of the sign 
Sagittarius. 
Unit System 
M  A  R  G  A  R  E  T                   R  O  S  E 
1  3   1  2  5                               2  7  3  5 
   =  22  =  4                              =  17  =  8 
                        4  +  8  =  12  =  3 
  See harmonies, etc., in Table below. 
Kabala 
M  A  R  G  A  R  E  T                   R  O  S  E 
13  1  20  3  1  20  5  22                  20  16 21  5 
   =  85  =  13                             =  62  =  8 
                          13  +  8  =  21 
  When there are more than two Christian or Forenames the same principle is 
followed but the total of each name is added and the final result from both the Unit 
and the Kabala systems used. 
TABLE OF NUMBER HARMONIES AND ANTIPATHIES UNDER THE UNIT SYSTEM 
1 vibrates to 9; attracts 4 and 8; and disagrees with 6 and 7. It is passive to 2, 3 and 5. 
2 vibrates to 8; attracts 7 and 9; and disagrees with 5. It is passive to 1, 3, 4 and 6. 
3 vibrates to 7; attracts 5,6 and 9; and disagrees with 4 and 8. It is passive to 1 and 2. 
4 vibrates to 6; attracts 1 and 8; and disagrees with 3 and 5. It is passive to 2, 7 and 9. 
5 vibrates to another 5; attracts 3 and 9; and disagrees with 2 and 4. It is passive to 1,6,7 & 8. 
6 vibrates to 4; attracts 3 and 9; and disagrees with 1 and 8. It is passive to 2, 5 and 7. 
7 vibrates to 3; attracts 2 and 6; and disagrees with 1 and 9. It is passive to 4, 5 and 8. 
8 vibrates to 2; attracts 1 and 4; and disagrees with 3 and 6. It is passive to 5, 7 and 9. 
9 vibrates to 1; attracts 2,3 and 6; and disagrees with 7. It is passive to 4, 5 and 8. 
   
 
Unit System 
A LICE 
JEANNE 
13 12 5 
15 15 5 4 
= 12 = 3 
= 21 = 3 
4+ 3 = 7 
See harmonies, etc., in Table on this page. 
Kabala 
A LICE 
JEANNE 
1 
12 1011 5 
10 5 
1 
14 14 5 
= 39 = 12 
= 49 = 13 
12 + 13 = 25 = 7 
The same process is repeated with these totals as with the previous name and hence 
the vibration will be the dame, love and marriage being under the influence of the sign 
Sagittarius. 
Unit System 
MARGARET 
ROS E 
13 12 °5 
273 °5 
= 22 = 4 
= 17 = 8 
4+ 8 = 12 = 3 
See harmonies, etc., in Table below. 
Kabala 
MARGARET 
ROS E 
13 
1 
20 3 
1 
20 5 22 
20 1621 5 
= 85 = 13 
= 62 = 8 
13 + 8 = 21 
When there are more than two Christian or Forenames the same principle is 
followed but the total of each name is added and the final result from both the Unit 
and the Kabala systems used. 
TABLE OF NUMBER HARMONIES AND ANTIPATHIES UNDER THE UNIT SYSTEM 
1 vibrates to 9; attracts 4 and 8; and disagrees with 6 and 7. It is passive to 2, 3 and 5. 
2 vibrates to 8; attracts 7 and 9; and disagrees with 5. It is passive to 1, 3, 4 and 6. 
3 vibrates to 7; attracts 5,6 and 9; and disagrees with 4 and 8. It is passive to | and 2. 
4 vibrates to 6; attracts 1 and 8; and disagrees with 3 and 5. It is passive to 2, 7 and 9. 
5 vibrates to another 5; attracts 3 and 9; and disagrees with 2 and 4. It is passive to 1,6,7 & 8. 
6 vibrates to 4; attracts 3 and 9; and disagrees with | and 8. It is passive to 2, 5 and 7. 
7 vibrates to 3; attracts 2 and 6; and disagrees with | and 9. It is passive to 4, 5 and 8. 
8 vibrates to 2; attracts 1 and 4; and disagrees with 3 and 6. It is passive to 5, 7 and 9. 
9 vibrates to 1; attracts 2,3 and 6; and disagrees with 7. It is passive to 4, 5 and 8. 
31

--- PAGE 33 of 67 ---

32
Explaining the above: 
(a) A number that vibrates to another shows that there is considerable mutual 
attraction and the marriage will be very favourable. 
(b) A number that attracts another shows that the two people are well suited to each 
other. 
(c) A number that disagrees with another shows that the union will call for a great deal 
of diplomacy, if it is to be attended with any measure of success. 
(d) Where a number is passive, it merely means that numerology offers no opinion, 
there being no outstanding influence for good or bad. 
(e) Of course, if the two numbers are alike, it is a foregone conclusion that the union 
will be very favourable.  
 
  The following attributes of the Love and Marriage number are based upon the 
planetary and zodiacal influences associated with each number. 
  The number ONE shows that the desire for variety in love affairs will be marked 
and hence it will not be too easy to bring about a lasting attachment which will be 
productive of marriage. You will be attracted towards intellectual types and yet, 
because of the intellectual bias, there can be an absence of passional warmth which, 
despite your own intellectual conception of affairs, you will desire. Hence it will be 
somewhat difficult to bring about desired developments. The marriage partner can be 
contacted whilst on a journey or as a result of attending a lecture or discussion group. 
Sometimes under the Mercury vibration the partner is a cousin. Once marriage has 
been brought about there will be need for exercising a degree of forethought and 
discrimination in order to ensure that the marriage shall last for, with an absence of 
passional warmth, misunderstandings could lead to a degree of bitterness and even to 
separation. 
  The number Two shows that you will use quite a deal of discrimination in matters to 
do with the affectional and marital sides of life. There will be an attraction towards 
marriage and a desire for certain of the amenities and comforts normally associated 
with the marital side of life. Affectional and marital disturbances can, however, occur 
as a result either of the criticism of the prospective or actual partner or because of 
criticism of the prospective or actual partner or because of criticism or interference of 
others who play some part in your normal everyday life. If these conditions become 
too pronounced, then troubles and difficulties can be overcome. The best type of 
partner is shown to be someone who is intellectual but who can also give thought to 
what may be termed “creature comforts” and who will be practical so far as financial 
and kindred matters are concerned. 
  The number THERE shows that your desire for companionship and affection is 
strong and hence showing that there will be a natural attraction towards the marital 
side of life. You will entertain somewhat idealistic views regarding marriage, but 
Explaining the above: 
(a) A number that vibrates to another shows that there is considerable mutual 
attraction and the marriage will be very favourable. 
(b) A number that attracts another shows that the two people are well suited to each 
other. 
(c) A number that disagrees with another shows that the union will call for a great deal 
of diplomacy, if it is to be attended with any measure of success. 
(d) Where a number is passive, it merely means that numerology offers no opinion, 
there being no outstanding influence for good or bad. 
(e) Of course, if the two numbers are alike, it is a foregone conclusion that the union 
will be very favourable. 
The following attributes of the Love and Marriage number are based upon the 
planetary and zodiacal influences associated with each number. 
The number ONE shows that the desire for variety in love affairs will be marked 
and hence it will not be too easy to bring about a lasting attachment which will be 
productive of marriage. You will be attracted towards intellectual types and yet, 
because of the intellectual bias, there can be an absence of passional warmth which, 
despite your own intellectual conception of affairs, you will desire. Hence it will be 
somewhat difficult to bring about desired developments. The marriage partner can be 
contacted whilst on a journey or as a result of attending a lecture or discussion group. 
Sometimes under the Mercury vibration the partner is a cousin. Once marriage has 
been brought about there will be need for exercising a degree of forethought and 
discrimination in order to ensure that the marriage shall last for, with an absence of 
passional warmth, misunderstandings could lead to a degree of bitterness and even to 
separation. 
The number Two shows that you will use quite a deal of discrimination in matters to 
do with the affectional and marital sides of life. There will be an attraction towards 
marriage and a desire for certain of the amenities and comforts normally associated 
with the marital side of life. Affectional and marital disturbances can, however, occur 
as a result either of the criticism of the prospective or actual partner or because of 
criticism of the prospective or actual partner or because of criticism or interference of 
others who play some part in your normal everyday life. If these conditions become 
too pronounced, then troubles and difficulties can be overcome. The best type of 
partner is shown to be someone who is intellectual but who can also give thought to 
what may be termed “creature comforts” and who will be practical so far as financial 
and kindred matters are concerned. 
The number THERE shows that your desire for companionship and affection is 
strong and hence showing that there will be a natural attraction towards the marital 
side of life. You will entertain somewhat idealistic views regarding marriage, but 
32

--- PAGE 34 of 67 ---

33
should always maintain a degree of practicality as otherwise there can be either a 
difficulty in bringing about developments or in maintaining ties once they are formed. 
It is a sign as well that will seem to give a peculiar attraction towards certain types of 
person, of the opposite sex, and hence it will again be necessary to see that this sense 
of fascination does not cause you to form attachments again interfering with 
prevailing ties or causing complications not altogether anticipated or desired. On the 
other hand, if you let your knowledge of human nature guide you, you can make a 
good choice of partner and will find that that partner will aid you regarding any 
interests of a social, public or kindred nature in which you may take part. 
  The number FOUR shows that the affectional and emotional desires are very strong 
and hence will attract you towards marriage, but you will need to use some discretion 
in your making of attachments and in your choice of marriage partner as you will find 
that difficulties will be encountered through the jealously and antagonism of certain 
individuals and it will not be too easy to bring about desired developments. Personal 
impulses will require regulating and you should not always take the advances of 
others too literally nor link them up with the possibility of marriage. The correct type 
of partner is shown to be of an active temperament with quite a deal of physical 
courage, interested quite possibly in occult affairs and conceivably with certain 
mechanical interests as well. Resourcefulness will be a marked characteristic but they 
can be somewhat possessive and jealous, and because of this, emotional upsets and 
unpleasantness can occur. 
  The number FIVE shows that love affairs and marriage will be productive of quite a 
degree of happiness and of benefit. There will be a strong desire for affection, but the 
factor of sincerity will count for a lot and despite a natural desire for companionship 
previous to marriage, the commonsense view of affairs will keep this desire within 
bounds and thus give a better opportunity for a constructive association to develop to 
the point of engagement and later of marriage. In some respects interests of a 
philosophical and religious nature will play their part and the marriage partner can be 
met whilst attending church or a religious ceremony or through  activities connected 
with the religious side if affairs. Marriage is shown to be very helpful. There will be 
love and sympathy from the marriage partner and benefit through the help of the 
partner in connection with vocational and financial matters. 
  The number SIX shows that companionship being the keynote of this number’s 
influence, there will be a natural attraction towards certain members of the opposite 
sex and the desire for love and affection will be very strong. There will, however, be a 
need to control sudden impulses for, otherwise, attachments of an unsatisfactory 
nature will be formed and, should these be allowed to bring about marriage, the 
outcome would not be as happy or successful as anticipated. Yet if the difference 
between fascination and true love can be distinguished, real happiness, both before 
and after marriage, is signified. This number, however, is essentially a weak number 
should always maintain a degree of practicality as otherwise there can be either a 
difficulty in bringing about developments or in maintaining ties once they are formed. 
It is a sign as well that will seem to give a peculiar attraction towards certain types of 
person, of the opposite sex, and hence it will again be necessary to see that this sense 
of fascination does not cause you to form attachments again interfering with 
prevailing ties or causing complications not altogether anticipated or desired. On the 
other hand, if you let your knowledge of human nature guide you, you can make a 
good choice of partner and will find that that partner will aid you regarding any 
interests of a social, public or kindred nature in which you may take part. 
The number FOUR shows that the affectional and emotional desires are very strong 
and hence will attract you towards marriage, but you will need to use some discretion 
in your making of attachments and in your choice of marriage partner as you will find 
that difficulties will be encountered through the jealously and antagonism of certain 
individuals and it will not be too easy to bring about desired developments. Personal 
impulses will require regulating and you should not always take the advances of 
others too literally nor link them up with the possibility of marriage. The correct type 
of partner is shown to be of an active temperament with quite a deal of physical 
courage, interested quite possibly in occult affairs and conceivably with certain 
mechanical interests as well. Resourcefulness will be a marked characteristic but they 
can be somewhat possessive and jealous, and because of this, emotional upsets and 
unpleasantness can occur. 
The number FIVE shows that love affairs and marriage will be productive of quite a 
degree of happiness and of benefit. There will be a strong desire for affection, but the 
factor of sincerity will count for a lot and despite a natural desire for companionship 
previous to marriage, the commonsense view of affairs will keep this desire within 
bounds and thus give a better opportunity for a constructive association to develop to 
the point of engagement and later of marriage. In some respects interests of a 
philosophical and religious nature will play their part and the marriage partner can be 
met whilst attending church or a religious ceremony or through activities connected 
with the religious side if affairs. Marriage is shown to be very helpful. There will be 
love and sympathy from the marriage partner and benefit through the help of the 
partner in connection with vocational and financial matters. 
The number SIX shows that companionship being the keynote of this number’s 
influence, there will be a natural attraction towards certain members of the opposite 
sex and the desire for love and affection will be very strong. There will, however, be a 
need to control sudden impulses for, otherwise, attachments of an unsatisfactory 
nature will be formed and, should these be allowed to bring about marriage, the 
outcome would not be as happy or successful as anticipated. Yet if the difference 
between fascination and true love can be distinguished, real happiness, both before 
and after marriage, is signified. This number, however, is essentially a weak number 
33

--- PAGE 35 of 67 ---

34
and shows that emotional and sexual temptations will occur and if circumstances 
bring a compulsory period or periods of separation from the marriage partner after 
marriage, the desire for companionship can cause the forming of temporary 
associations which, if permitted to go too far, could lead to a disturbing of the 
marriage tie. 
  The number SEVEN signifies that there will be more than one affectional 
attachment or love affair and it sometimes shows the consummation of more than one 
marriage. It indicates that interests to do with sport, outdoor life, animals and birds, 
travel and to some extent religion can be the means of meeting the prospective and 
actual partner. Although in its general influence the sign exercise a favourable 
vibration it does show that before the real partner is contacted and marriage 
consummated, there will be a making and breaking of associations and it is possible 
for one of these breaks to be caused by the prospective partner going away, either 
through travel or in connection with vocation, and failing to make a renewal of the 
contact. One thing is shown to be of great importance, and that is that after marriage 
any difference of race or religion should not be permitted to cause misunderstanding. 
  The number EIGHT shows that certain of your ambitions are associated with the 
affectional and marital side if affairs and that as a result of marriage you will aim to 
bring about a developing of business, social and public affairs with the co-operation 
of the partner. At the same time it may not be too easy to find the right type of partner 
and hence delays and obstructive conditions can arise, both in the actual forming of 
attachments and as regards the consummation of marriage. It is possible for the 
marriage partner to be older than yourself and for marriage to take place somewhat 
later in life than is usually considered to be the average age for marriage. You will 
need to give some of the pressure of everyday affairs is taken away. You will also find 
that at times the partner will not be too demonstrative from the affectional standpoint 
but this will not affect from their sincerity of affection. 
  The number NINE in its rule over love affairs and marriage shows that many of 
your hopes and wishes will be associated with these interests of life and you will want 
to bring about a developing of associations is that marriage can be consummated. As a 
result of marriage you will also find it easier to bring about a realising of other hopes 
and wishes to do with the social and public sides of life and with finance and business, 
as the help of the marriage partner will prove to be invaluable in these respects. Yet 
difficulties will be encountered in first of all making an attachment that can be 
developed up to the requisite end of marriage. In early life the sign shows an 
attraction to persons of the opposite sex who are older than yourself and some 
discrimination will be required to see that the disparity in age is not too pronounced, 
as this could bring future unhappiness. If marriage is not consummated reasonably 
early in life then, as age advances you will find that the attraction will veer round to 
those of the opposite sex who are younger, but a degree of prejudice can occur from 
and shows that emotional and sexual temptations will occur and if circumstances 
bring a compulsory period or periods of separation from the marriage partner after 
marriage, the desire for companionship can cause the forming of temporary 
associations which, if permitted to go too far, could lead to a disturbing of the 
marriage tie. 
The number SEVEN signifies that there will be more than one affectional 
attachment or love affair and it sometimes shows the consummation of more than one 
marriage. It indicates that interests to do with sport, outdoor life, animals and birds, 
travel and to some extent religion can be the means of meeting the prospective and 
actual partner. Although in its general influence the sign exercise a favourable 
vibration it does show that before the real partner is contacted and marriage 
consummated, there will be a making and breaking of associations and it is possible 
for one of these breaks to be caused by the prospective partner going away, either 
through travel or in connection with vocation, and failing to make a renewal of the 
contact. One thing is shown to be of great importance, and that is that after marriage 
any difference of race or religion should not be permitted to cause misunderstanding. 
The number EIGHT shows that certain of your ambitions are associated with the 
affectional and marital side if affairs and that as a result of marriage you will aim to 
bring about a developing of business, social and public affairs with the co-operation 
of the partner. At the same time it may not be too easy to find the right type of partner 
and hence delays and obstructive conditions can arise, both in the actual forming of 
attachments and as regards the consummation of marriage. It is possible for the 
marriage partner to be older than yourself and for marriage to take place somewhat 
later in life than is usually considered to be the average age for marriage. You will 
need to give some of the pressure of everyday affairs is taken away. You will also find 
that at times the partner will not be too demonstrative from the affectional standpoint 
but this will not affect from their sincerity of affection. 
The number NINE in its rule over love affairs and marriage shows that many of 
your hopes and wishes will be associated with these interests of life and you will want 
to bring about a developing of associations is that marriage can be consummated. As a 
result of marriage you will also find it easier to bring about a realising of other hopes 
and wishes to do with the social and public sides of life and with finance and business, 
as the help of the marriage partner will prove to be invaluable in these respects. Yet 
difficulties will be encountered in first of all making an attachment that can be 
developed up to the requisite end of marriage. In early life the sign shows an 
attraction to persons of the opposite sex who are older than yourself and some 
discrimination will be required to see that the disparity in age is not too pronounced, 
as this could bring future unhappiness. If marriage is not consummated reasonably 
early in life then, as age advances you will find that the attraction will veer round to 
those of the opposite sex who are younger, but a degree of prejudice can occur from 
34

--- PAGE 36 of 67 ---

35
others associated with the desired partner. 
  The number TEN being the number of a romance shows that there will be quite a 
number of love affairs in the life and some of these can be of quite a hectic and 
outstanding nature, but as the number also causes sudden upsets and breaks, the 
pathway of love will not run too smoothly and hence several affairs are signified 
before marriage is finally brought about. When it does take place it is likely to be in a 
sudden and unexpected manner and even after it has been achieved there will be a 
danger of sudden upsets if these are permitted to go to an extreme, separation or even 
divorce can occur. Therefore, you will need to be watchful as it will be so easy for 
things to go awry. Particularly as, owing to the romantic tendency in you nature, you 
can be attracted to two or even more persons of the opposite sex at the same time. 
  The number ELEVEN in its influence over love affairs and the condition of 
marriage, will be somewhat peculiar. It tends to bring about a forming of platonic 
associations, both before and after marriage, or circumstances can seem to compel a 
degree of secrecy. you will also find that your own power of mental and oral 
suggestion will have an influence over those towards whom you are attracted and 
hence, unless you are morally strong, can cause you to be tempted to do things to gain 
a selfish end. In giving way to such temptations, however, future trouble and unrest 
can be built up. Alternatively, there will be occasions when you yourself will be 
receptive to the suggestions of others and hence can experience some form of 
deception from the one to whom you are attracted or even married. The outcome of 
marital affairs will depend very greatly upon the trend of financial and business 
interests. If these go awry then the marriage can suffer. 
  The number TWELVE gives an idealistic conception of affectional and marital 
conditions and shows that you have the capacity to make many sacrifices in order to 
bring about a developing of affectional issues; it signifies that you will experience 
many vicissitudes and the trend of affectional matters will not run as smoothly or 
happily as you desire, and your spirit of sacrifice can in certain instances be abused in 
a very unfair manner by those to whom you give love unfair manner by those to 
whom you give love and affection. There is a strong indication of more than one 
affectional attachment, but breaks can occur either through the unwise or even selfish 
actions of the prospective or actual partner, or because of your disagreement with the 
partner’s mode of life or activities and a sudden realising that temperamental 
differences would only be productive of unhappiness. You need a partner who will be 
able to blend practicality with a degree of ambition and yet who will give some 
thought to domestic and private affairs, but the danger is that those whom you contact 
will not seem to have the necessary incentive to bring about progress desired, or, if 
they have, they will be already married or tied in some way. 
  The number THIRTEEN shows that you are somewhat idealistic regarding matters 
to do with  the affections and marriage, but may not always be practical. Certain 
others associated with the desired partner. 
The number TEN being the number of a romance shows that there will be quite a 
number of love affairs in the life and some of these can be of quite a hectic and 
outstanding nature, but as the number also causes sudden upsets and breaks, the 
pathway of love will not run too smoothly and hence several affairs are signified 
before marriage is finally brought about. When it does take place it is likely to be ina 
sudden and unexpected manner and even after it has been achieved there will be a 
danger of sudden upsets if these are permitted to go to an extreme, separation or even 
divorce can occur. Therefore, you will need to be watchful as it will be so easy for 
things to go awry. Particularly as, owing to the romantic tendency in you nature, you 
can be attracted to two or even more persons of the opposite sex at the same time. 
The number ELEVEN in its influence over love affairs and the condition of 
marriage, will be somewhat peculiar. It tends to bring about a forming of platonic 
associations, both before and after marriage, or circumstances can seem to compel a 
degree of secrecy. you will also find that your own power of mental and oral 
suggestion will have an influence over those towards whom you are attracted and 
hence, unless you are morally strong, can cause you to be tempted to do things to gain 
a selfish end. In giving way to such temptations, however, future trouble and unrest 
can be built up. Alternatively, there will be occasions when you yourself will be 
receptive to the suggestions of others and hence can experience some form of 
deception from the one to whom you are attracted or even married. The outcome of 
marital affairs will depend very greatly upon the trend of financial and business 
interests. If these go awry then the marriage can suffer. 
The number TWELVE gives an idealistic conception of affectional and marital 
conditions and shows that you have the capacity to make many sacrifices in order to 
bring about a developing of affectional issues; it signifies that you will experience 
many vicissitudes and the trend of affectional matters will not run as smoothly or 
happily as you desire, and your spirit of sacrifice can in certain instances be abused in 
a very unfair manner by those to whom you give love unfair manner by those to 
whom you give love and affection. There is a strong indication of more than one 
affectional attachment, but breaks can occur either through the unwise or even selfish 
actions of the prospective or actual partner, or because of your disagreement with the 
partner’s mode of life or activities and a sudden realising that temperamental 
differences would only be productive of unhappiness. You need a partner who will be 
able to blend practicality with a degree of ambition and yet who will give some 
thought to domestic and private affairs, but the danger is that those whom you contact 
will not seem to have the necessary incentive to bring about progress desired, or, if 
they have, they will be already married or tied in some way. 
The number THIRTEEN shows that you are somewhat idealistic regarding matters 
to do with the affections and marriage, but may not always be practical. Certain 
35

--- PAGE 37 of 67 ---

36
types of the opposite sex will seem to have a rather peculiar attraction or fascination 
for you and if you do not exercise proper control you can give way to inclinations to 
form attachments interfering with existing ties. A degree of emotional impulse is 
strongly shown and is intensified by your natural desire for companionship. 
Affectional and marital interests will not always run too smoothly as the prospective 
or actual partner will usually be active and energetic and on occasions this activity 
will conflict with your own desire to pursue affairs in a reasonably quiet and 
unhurried manner, any attempt at domination on the side of the partner will be 
productive of friction and temperamental upsets. 
  The number FOURTEEN will enhance the desire for affection, but also gives a 
sense of discrimination and hence attachments will not be too lightly entered into. It is 
not a flirtatious number, but shows an appreciation of sincerity and can give sincerity 
in return, therefore once an association is made there will be an intent to make it 
permanent and, if possible, to bring about marriage. Should a break occur, either 
though circumstances or because the prospective partner lacks the same sincerity as 
yourself, you will suffer rather severely and it will take quite a considerable time to 
overcome the sense of hurt and to take steps towards the forming of another 
attachment. Usually, with marriage has developed from a love match, as is quite 
possible, then there is not likely to be desire for a second marriage should the 
marriage partner die first. 
  The number FIFTEEN will exercise a retarding and delaying influence. In love 
affairs there will be a difficulty in making a requisite approach to someone of the 
opposite sex, and though the desire and the liking may be strong it will not be easy to 
express the desire in words or action and hence opportunities for the forming of 
attachments can be lost, particularly in early life. As age advances it will be easier to 
make the approach as result of past experience and a satisfactory attachment and 
marriage can be brought about, the latter being of a lasting nature. You are not likely 
to experience passionate flirtations and love affairs, for despite an inner ardency you 
will not be likely to attract those who would respond, but on the other hand you can 
bring about a marriage with a partner who will be constant and who will be more 
likely to stick to you through times of difficulty. 
  The number SIXTEEN invariably gives an ardency of affection and, therefor, more 
than one love affair or attachment is signified, there will be a tendency to rush into 
associations and sometimes to mistake fascination for love. On occasions an 
inclination to flirt, just for the fun of the thing, will be very strong, and so long as this 
does not go beyond certain limits no harm will result, but should the passional side of 
the nature be allowed to become too marked, future complications could occur. Once 
a definite attachment has been formed and engagement brought about you should not 
let temporary inclinations of an amorous nature intervene as to permit this would be to 
bring about a possible upsetting of the association and engagement. The dame 
types of the opposite sex will seem to have a rather peculiar attraction or fascination 
for you and if you do not exercise proper control you can give way to inclinations to 
form attachments interfering with existing ties. A degree of emotional impulse is 
strongly shown and is intensified by your natural desire for companionship. 
Affectional and marital interests will not always run too smoothly as the prospective 
or actual partner will usually be active and energetic and on occasions this activity 
will conflict with your own desire to pursue affairs in a reasonably quiet and 
unhurried manner, any attempt at domination on the side of the partner will be 
productive of friction and temperamental upsets. 
The number FOURTEEN will enhance the desire for affection, but also gives a 
sense of discrimination and hence attachments will not be too lightly entered into. It is 
not a flirtatious number, but shows an appreciation of sincerity and can give sincerity 
in return, therefore once an association is made there will be an intent to make it 
permanent and, if possible, to bring about marriage. Should a break occur, either 
though circumstances or because the prospective partner lacks the same sincerity as 
yourself, you will suffer rather severely and it will take quite a considerable time to 
overcome the sense of hurt and to take steps towards the forming of another 
attachment. Usually, with marriage has developed from a love match, as is quite 
possible, then there is not likely to be desire for a second marriage should the 
marriage partner die first. 
The number FIFTEEN will exercise a retarding and delaying influence. In love 
affairs there will be a difficulty in making a requisite approach to someone of the 
opposite sex, and though the desire and the liking may be strong it will not be easy to 
express the desire in words or action and hence opportunities for the forming of 
attachments can be lost, particularly in early life. As age advances it will be easier to 
make the approach as result of past experience and a satisfactory attachment and 
marriage can be brought about, the latter being of a lasting nature. You are not likely 
to experience passionate flirtations and love affairs, for despite an inner ardency you 
will not be likely to attract those who would respond, but on the other hand you can 
bring about a marriage with a partner who will be constant and who will be more 
likely to stick to you through times of difficulty. 
The number SIXTEEN invariably gives an ardency of affection and, therefor, more 
than one love affair or attachment is signified, there will be a tendency to rush into 
associations and sometimes to mistake fascination for love. On occasions an 
inclination to flirt, just for the fun of the thing, will be very strong, and so long as this 
does not go beyond certain limits no harm will result, but should the passional side of 
the nature be allowed to become too marked, future complications could occur. Once 
a definite attachment has been formed and engagement brought about you should not 
let temporary inclinations of an amorous nature intervene as to permit this would be to 
bring about a possible upsetting of the association and engagement. The dame 
36

--- PAGE 38 of 67 ---

37
remarks will apply, and in an even stronger manner, after marriage, which, form a 
general standpoint, is shown to take place early in life. 
  The number SEVENTEEN shows that more than one affectional attachment will 
occur and there is a strong indication of more than one marriage. You will, however, 
need to exercise discretion in the making of attachments as, owing to your desire for 
change and variety, you can permit sudden fascinations to influence you and hence 
can make attachments which, after a time, pall and are creative of complications 
which will not be too easily overcome, especially should you wish to effect a breaking 
of the attachment. The correct type of partner is shown to be one of an intellectual 
disposition, a fairly good conversationalist and able to blend interests of a social and 
public nature with those of a domestic and family character. It is quite possible that 
the partner will be met whilst you are travelling or as a result of a journey and can be 
associated with intellectual, educational, newspaper or transport interests. 
  The number EIGHTEEN shows that as you have a strong desire for domestic 
comforts there will be a more or less natural attraction towards the condition of 
marriage and you will be able to do many things yourself towards making marriage a 
success. At the same time a great deal is shown to depend upon the attitude and 
activities of the partner and there is a possibility of temperamental upsets occurring 
because the partner either does not, or in certain respects will not, work in with certain 
of your ambitions, or put forward the same effort as yourself in order to bring about 
an advancing of material, business, social or public interests. At the same time the 
partner is shown to have a rather powerful imagination and will be productive of 
mutual benefit. There will, however, be times when the health of the partner will 
require attention. 
  The number NINETEEN shows that you will have a strong desire for affection, but 
signifies that certain of your ambitions can be associated with or influenced by marital 
conditions and the business, financial and social position of the prospective or actual 
partner. There will, however, be need for discretion in your choice of partner as an 
unwise choice could be productive of considerable unhappiness and disappointment. 
Particular thought should be, in fact, given to the business or social standing of the 
partner, and it would not be advisable to marry anyone in a lower or mediocre social 
position as there would be an unfavourable reaction both upon future activities and 
personal happiness. Finance will also play some part in affairs, and in certain respects 
can sway your decision regarding the partner. Interests to do with children will have 
some influence over your decisions. 
  The number TWENTY in its vibration over marriage shows a strong desire for a 
home and, therefore, you will want to bring about an attachment that will not last too 
long before marriage take place. Hence your best type of partner will naturally be 
someone who will feel happy in doing cooking and the other domestic features of life, 
or will be willing to assist in the domestic side. Such a partner will help to bring about 
remarks will apply, and in an even stronger manner, after marriage, which, form a 
general standpoint, is shown to take place early in life. 
The number SEVENTEEN shows that more than one affectional attachment will 
occur and there is a strong indication of more than one marriage. You will, however, 
need to exercise discretion in the making of attachments as, owing to your desire for 
change and variety, you can permit sudden fascinations to influence you and hence 
can make attachments which, after a time, pall and are creative of complications 
which will not be too easily overcome, especially should you wish to effect a breaking 
of the attachment. The correct type of partner is shown to be one of an intellectual 
disposition, a fairly good conversationalist and able to blend interests of a social and 
public nature with those of a domestic and family character. It is quite possible that 
the partner will be met whilst you are travelling or as a result of a journey and can be 
associated with intellectual, educational, newspaper or transport interests. 
The number EIGHTEEN shows that as you have a strong desire for domestic 
comforts there will be a more or less natural attraction towards the condition of 
marriage and you will be able to do many things yourself towards making marriage a 
success. At the same time a great deal is shown to depend upon the attitude and 
activities of the partner and there is a possibility of temperamental upsets occurring 
because the partner either does not, or in certain respects will not, work in with certain 
of your ambitions, or put forward the same effort as yourself in order to bring about 
an advancing of material, business, social or public interests. At the same time the 
partner is shown to have a rather powerful imagination and will be productive of 
mutual benefit. There will, however, be times when the health of the partner will 
require attention. 
The number NINETEEN shows that you will have a strong desire for affection, but 
signifies that certain of your ambitions can be associated with or influenced by marital 
conditions and the business, financial and social position of the prospective or actual 
partner. There will, however, be need for discretion in your choice of partner as an 
unwise choice could be productive of considerable unhappiness and disappointment. 
Particular thought should be, in fact, given to the business or social standing of the 
partner, and it would not be advisable to marry anyone in a lower or mediocre social 
position as there would be an unfavourable reaction both upon future activities and 
personal happiness. Finance will also play some part in affairs, and in certain respects 
can sway your decision regarding the partner. Interests to do with children will have 
some influence over your decisions. 
The number TWENTY in its vibration over marriage shows a strong desire for a 
home and, therefore, you will want to bring about an attachment that will not last too 
long before marriage take place. Hence your best type of partner will naturally be 
someone who will feel happy in doing cooking and the other domestic features of life, 
or will be willing to assist in the domestic side. Such a partner will help to bring about 
37

--- PAGE 39 of 67 ---

38
a successful marriage. In love affairs before marriage you will find yourself attracted 
towards the so-called “glamorous types,” but as a partner for life this type would not 
prove suitable for a lasting marriage. After marriage family life is shown to be 
important, and the reaction of the partner towards the question of children will make 
or mar the subsequent development of the marriage. 
  The number TWENTY-ONE, although in many respects a favourable number in its 
vibration upon love and marriage, follows a kind of two-way path. It intensifies the 
personal desire for love and affection and will bring the forming of very definite but 
tense associations. It shows, however, that the individual position in life will have a 
very strong influence over the actual trend of the love affair and over marriage itself, 
whilst the position of the prospective or actual partner will also be of very great 
importance, so much so that it is possible for factors beyond one’s own personal 
control to intervene, even to the extent of denying marriage. You will, therefore, need 
to take many things into account where love affairs are concerned, and it is possible 
for a great love to be experienced, and yet also a great sorrow. If marriage is brought 
about with the love one, then be prepared to make great sacrifices. 
  The number TWENTY-TWO is one that will give you quite a board-mined outlook 
upon life and consequently upon matters to do with love and marriage. Whilst you 
will have a natural desire for the companionship of and association with the opposite 
sex, you will try to view things from a practical standpoint and to maintain a practical 
line of action and hence, if a love affair peters out, as it is quite likely to do, you will 
try to accept the fact philosophically, even though you will naturally feel hurt. The 
philosophical acceptance will, however, help to overcome the sting and enable you to 
bring about another attachment. The number is mainly favourable for marriage and 
shows that the practical handling of the marital finances and on the social and kindred 
interests in which there is a joint operation with the marriage partner. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a successful marriage. In love affairs before marriage you will find yourself attracted 
towards the so-called “glamorous types,” but as a partner for life this type would not 
prove suitable for a lasting marriage. After marriage family life is shown to be 
important, and the reaction of the partner towards the question of children will make 
or mar the subsequent development of the marriage. 
The number TWENTY-ONE, although in many respects a favourable number in its 
vibration upon love and marriage, follows a kind of two-way path. It intensifies the 
personal desire for love and affection and will bring the forming of very definite but 
tense associations. It shows, however, that the individual position in life will have a 
very strong influence over the actual trend of the love affair and over marriage itself, 
whilst the position of the prospective or actual partner will also be of very great 
importance, so much so that it is possible for factors beyond one’s own personal 
control to intervene, even to the extent of denying marriage. You will, therefore, need 
to take many things into account where love affairs are concerned, and it is possible 
for a great love to be experienced, and yet also a great sorrow. If marriage is brought 
about with the love one, then be prepared to make great sacrifices. 
The number TWENTY-TWO is one that will give you quite a board-mined outlook 
upon life and consequently upon matters to do with love and marriage. Whilst you 
will have a natural desire for the companionship of and association with the opposite 
sex, you will try to view things from a practical standpoint and to maintain a practical 
line of action and hence, if a love affair peters out, as it is quite likely to do, you will 
try to accept the fact philosophically, even though you will naturally feel hurt. The 
philosophical acceptance will, however, help to overcome the sting and enable you to 
bring about another attachment. The number is mainly favourable for marriage and 
shows that the practical handling of the marital finances and on the social and kindred 
interests in which there is a joint operation with the marriage partner. 
38

--- PAGE 40 of 67 ---

39
CHAPTER SIX 
 
YOUR LUCKY AND MONEY NUMBERS 
 
In determining your lucky and money numbers a double sequence of factors has to be 
employed, for the lucky number can be quite distinct from the number that has rule 
over the general money indication of your life; but by knowing your lucky number, 
financial activities can often be arranged in the hour on any particular day that 
corresponds to your lucky number and this greater benefit can be derived then would 
ordinarily be possible. 
   To find your lucky number you must know the DAY OF THE WEEK on which 
you were born, whether Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and so on and the hour of that day 
on which you were born. The exact minute of the hour does not matter so much. If, 
for instance, you were born at 6.17 a.m. or p.m. then the hour would count from 6am 
or p.m. and so on with other times.  
   If you were born inn 1916 or any year subsequent to that date, and in a part of the 
world where Single Summer Time or Double Summer Time has been operative, do 
not forget to allow for the one hour or two hours difference in time. If you were born 
at say 4.30 a.m. when Single Summer Time was in force, then you correct time of 
birth would be one hour earlier, i.e. 3.30 a.m. and your lucky number would be that 
number which influenced the hour from 3 to 4a.m. If you were born when Double 
Summer Time was in force, say at 8.20 p.m., then your correct time of birth would be 
two hours earlier, i.e. At 6.20 p.m. and the number that influences the hour from 6 to 7 
p.m. would bee your lucky number. 
      In the table given on page 78 the hours of each day, from Sunday to Saturday, 
a.m. and p.m. are given, together with the number that rules the hour. The number 
shown for your day and hour of birth will be your Lucky Number. 
     It will be seen that some of the number are in bold type and others in ordinary 
type. Those in bold type show the positive hours and those in ordinary type show the 
negative hours. Naturally, the positive hours strengthen the fortunate vibration and 
will bring proportionately a great degree of luck than the negative hours, but 
whichever hour you are born in, positive or negative, the number ruling that hour will 
be your lucky number. 
 
     Once having ascertained your lucky number from the day and hour chart it 
becomes relatively easy to begin to use its influence for, from the chart, can be seen 
the hours on the various days of the week when this number is exercising power.  
 
 
 
CHAPTER SIX 
YOUR LUCKY AND MONEY NUMBERS 
In determining your lucky and money numbers a double sequence of factors has to be 
employed, for the lucky number can be quite distinct from the number that has rule 
over the general money indication of your life; but by knowing your lucky number, 
financial activities can often be arranged in the hour on any particular day that 
corresponds to your lucky number and this greater benefit can be derived then would 
ordinarily be possible. 
To find your lucky number you must know the DAY OF THE WEEK on which 
you were born, whether Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and so on and the hour of that day 
on which you were born. The exact minute of the hour does not matter so much. If, 
for instance, you were born at 6.17 a.m. or p.m. then the hour would count from 6am 
or p.m. and so on with other times. 
If you were born inn 1916 or any year subsequent to that date, and in a part of the 
world where Single Summer Time or Double Summer Time has been operative, do 
not forget to allow for the one hour or two hours difference in time. If you were born 
at say 4.30 a.m. when Single Summer Time was in force, then you correct time of 
birth would be one hour earlier, i.e. 3.30 a.m. and your lucky number would be that 
number which influenced the hour from 3 to 4a.m. If you were born when Double 
Summer Time was in force, say at 8.20 p.m., then your correct time of birth would be 
two hours earlier, i.e. At 6.20 p.m. and the number that influences the hour from 6 to 7 
p.m. would bee your lucky number. 
In the table given on page 78 the hours of each day, from Sunday to Saturday, 
a.m. and p.m. are given, together with the number that rules the hour. The number 
shown for your day and hour of birth will be your Lucky Number. 
It will be seen that some of the number are in bold type and others in ordinary 
type. Those in bold type show the positive hours and those in ordinary type show the 
negative hours. Naturally, the positive hours strengthen the fortunate vibration and 
will bring proportionately a great degree of luck than the negative hours, but 
whichever hour you are born in, positive or negative, the number ruling that hour will 
be your lucky number. 
Once having ascertained your lucky number from the day and hour chart it 
becomes relatively easy to begin to use its influence for, from the chart, can be seen 
the hours on the various days of the week when this number is exercising power. 
39

--- PAGE 41 of 67 ---

40
 SUN   
MON 
 TUES
WED
THUR
FRI 
 SAT 
Birth 
Time 
AM PM AM 
PM AM 
PM AM PM AM 
PM AM PM AM PM
0~1 
1 
3 
7 
6 
9
8
5
1
3
7
6 
9 
8 
5
1~2 
6 
9 
8 
5 
4
3
2
6
9
8
5 
4 
3 
2
2~3 
5 
1 
3 
7 
6
9
8
5
1
3
7 
6 
9 
8
3~4 
2 
6 
9 
8 
5
4
3
2
6
9
8 
5 
4 
3
4~5 
8 
5 
1 
3 
8
6
9
8
5
1
3 
7 
6 
9
5~6 
3 
2 
6 
9 
9
5
4
3
2
6
9 
8 
5 
4
6~7 
9 
8 
5 
1 
3
7
6
9
8
5
1 
3 
7 
6
7~8 
4 
3 
2 
6 
9
8
5
4
3
2
6 
9 
8 
5
8~9 
6 
9 
8 
5 
1
3
7
6
9
8
5 
1 
3 
7
9~10 
5 
4 
3 
2 
6
9
8
5
4
3
2 
6 
9 
8
10~11 
7 
6 
9 
8 
5
1
3
7
6
9
8 
5 
1 
3
11~12 
8 
5 
4 
3 
2
6
9
8
5
4
3 
2 
6 
9
 
For in stance, if you were born on a Monday between 6 and 7 a.m.  your lucky 
number would be 5 and the hours on any other day governed by the number 5 could 
be used for furthering specific activities, particularly if you could use those hours 
when a positive 5 is exercising power. 
   The positive hour or hours would, naturally, be best for anything of an active or 
constructional nature, but the negative hour or hours ruled by your lucky number 
would be extremely favorable for studies, research, investigation, etc., and could be 
used for the filling in of a football coupon or for concentration upon the result of a 
horse or dog race, for during these negative hours, the power of inspiration would be 
considerably stronger than during the positive hours which, as stated, are more for 
active interests. 
To know one’s money number, which is completely distinct from one’s Lucky 
Number, we again have to revert to the numerical value of one’s name, and in this 
case the WHOLE of the name, inclusive of Christian or Forenames WITH Surname, 
must be taken into account. The numbers for each name should be set out separately, 
then the total of each name added and the final result reduced to 22, or under should it 
be above 22. The system of the Kabala is used for this and not the Unit system. Once 
the final number has been obtained, the planetary or zodiacal vibration associated 
with the number will give the overall indication regarding the general financial 
fortunes off life. 
   
 
 
 
 
SUN 
MON 
TUES 
WED 
THUR 
FRI 
SAT 
Birth 
AM |PM|AM |PM|AM_ |PM|AM |PM|AM_- 
|PM|AM |PM/AM |PM 
Time 
0~1 
1} 
3 
7| 
6 
9) 
8 
5] 
1 
3) 
7 
6) 
9 
8) 
5 
1~2 
6| 
9 
8} 
5 
4, 
3 
2| 
6 
9) 
8 
5| 
4 
3) 
2 
2~3 
5] 
1 
3) 
7 
6| 
9 
8) 
5 
1] 
3 
7| 
6 
9) 
8 
3~4 
2| 
6 
9) 
8 
5| 
4 
3) 
2 
6| 
9 
8) 
5 
4, 
3 
4~5 
8) 
5 
1] 
3 
8] 
6 
9} 
8 
5) 
1 
3} 
7 
6} 
9 
5~6 
3/ 
2 
6} 
9 
9) 
5 
4| 
3 
2} 
6 
9} 
8 
5| 
4 
6~7 
9} 
8 
5| 
1 
3] 
7 
6} 
9 
8} 
5 
1; 
3 
7| 
6 
7~8 
4| 
3 
2| 
6 
9} 
8 
5| 
4 
3] 
2 
6} 
9 
8} 
5 
8~9 
6| 
9 
8} 
5 
1} 
3 
7| 
6 
9) 
8 
5} 
1 
3) 
7 
9~10 
5| 
4 
3| 
2 
6| 
9 
8) 
5 
4| 
3 
2| 
6 
9) 
8 
10~11 
7| 
6 
9} 
8 
5| 
1 
3| 
7 
6| 
9 
8) 
5 
1] 
3 
11~12 
8) 
5 
4| 
3 
2| 
6 
9} 
8 
5| 
4 
3) 
2 
6| 
9 
For in stance, if you were born on a Monday between 6 and 7 a.m. your lucky 
number would be 5 and the hours on any other day governed by the number 5 could 
be used for furthering specific activities, particularly if you could use those hours 
when a positive 5 is exercising power. 
The positive hour or hours would, naturally, be best for anything of an active or 
constructional nature, but the negative hour or hours ruled by your lucky number 
would be extremely favorable for studies, research, investigation, etc., and could be 
used for the filling in of a football coupon or for concentration upon the result of a 
horse or dog race, for during these negative hours, the power of inspiration would be 
considerably stronger than during the positive hours which, as stated, are more for 
active interests. 
To know one’s money number, which is completely distinct from one’s Lucky 
Number, we again have to revert to the numerical value of one’s name, and in this 
case the WHOLE of the name, inclusive of Christian or Forenames WITH Surname, 
must be taken into account. The numbers for each name should be set out separately, 
then the total of each name added and the final result reduced to 22, or under should it 
be above 22. The system of the Kabala is used for this and not the Unit system. Once 
the final number has been obtained, the planetary or zodiacal vibration associated 
with the number will give the overall indication regarding the general financial 
fortunes off life. 
40

--- PAGE 42 of 67 ---

41
 
One or two illustrations of names will be given : -- 
 
E  D  W  A  R  D       W  I   L   L  I   A  M 
5  4  6   1   20  4       6  10  12  12  10  1  13 
       = 40 = 4                   =  64  = 10 
           W  H  I   T  M  A  N 
6 8  10  22  13  1  14 
       = 74  = 11 
 
  The three totals are added: 4+10+11 = 25 = 7. At the first total came to 25, which is 
above 22, the units are added together making the final number 7. This number will 
show the overall financial indications. 
  All the attributes of the 22 numbers are given in  the following pages of this 
chapter.  
  One further illustration of name will be given so that the principle may be made 
clear. 
G  A  B  R   I  E   L   L  E             R  E  N  E   
3  1   2  20  10  5  12  12  5             20  5  14  5 
         = 70  = 7                            = 44  = 8 
                C  A  R   T  E  R  
11 1  20  22  5  20 
                     = 79  = 16 
The three totals are added ; 7+8+16 = 31 = 4 . The final number being 4, that number 
will operate over the general money interests of life. 
The number ONE in its influence over your money interests shows that money 
will be earned and derived from quite a variety of sources. Some of these can be of an 
intellectual and mental nature and others can be connected with travel, transport and 
certain mechanical affairs, for the influence gives quite a degree of adaptability and it 
will not take you long to see the possibilities latent in any given condition, to acquire 
a sufficiency of knowledge to handle it and then to turn it to practical use. Yet you 
will need to see that you do not fritter away any gain that occurs, or any reserve that 
you create during the progressive periods, by certain forms of irresponsible or 
thoughtless expenditure. Particular care will always be required in the making of 
financial agreements and arrangements and in the signing  of financial papers. Never 
take things to much for granted. 
 The number TWO causes you to have a strong sense of thrift without 
necessarily being mean. You will not mind spending money, within reason, but you 
will always do your utmost to obtain full value for the money you do spend. You will 
invariably do your best to regulate both income and expenditure and this will apply to 
One or two illustrations of names will be given : -- 
EDWARD 
wiobLLtioAM 
546 1 
20 4 
6 10 12 12 10 
1 13 
=40=4 
= 64 =10 
WHITMAN 
6 
8 10 22 13 
1 
14 
=74 =11 
The three totals are added: 4+10+11 = 25 = 7. At the first total came to 25, which is 
above 22, the units are added together making the final number 7. This number will 
show the overall financial indications. 
All the attributes of the 22 numbers are given in the following pages of this 
chapter. 
One further illustration of name will be given so that the principle may be made 
clear. 
GABR IE L LE 
R ENE 
3 
1 
2 20 10 5 12 12 5 
20 5 14 5 
=70 =7 
=44 =8 
C AR TER 
11 
1 
20 22 5 20 
=79 =16 
The three totals are added ; 7+8+16 = 31 =4. The final number being 4, that number 
will operate over the general money interests of life. 
The number ONE in its influence over your money interests shows that money 
will be earned and derived from quite a variety of sources. Some of these can be of an 
intellectual and mental nature and others can be connected with travel, transport and 
certain mechanical affairs, for the influence gives quite a degree of adaptability and it 
will not take you long to see the possibilities latent in any given condition, to acquire 
a sufficiency of knowledge to handle it and then to turn it to practical use. Yet you 
will need to see that you do not fritter away any gain that occurs, or any reserve that 
you create during the progressive periods, by certain forms of irresponsible or 
thoughtless expenditure. Particular care will always be required in the making of 
financial agreements and arrangements and in the signing of financial papers. Never 
take things to much for granted. 
The number TWO causes you to have a strong sense of thrift without 
necessarily being mean. You will not mind spending money, within reason, but you 
will always do your utmost to obtain full value for the money you do spend. You will 
invariably do your best to regulate both income and expenditure and this will apply to 
4]

--- PAGE 43 of 67 ---

42
private as well as to business activities. You will benefit through constructive 
developments to do with either work or business and through proper attention to 
details, but there will be occasions when it will be wiser not to express undue 
criticism of the decisions or actions of others who may be associated with your 
financial interests, for this would only tend to create misunderstanding and 
unpleasantness and could disturb co-operation or any form of partnership. Additional 
income could be obtained by using literary ability (if you do not already use this 
professionally) and by obtaining a knowledge of such things as accountancy, costing, 
etc., and using this knowledge inn a part-time capacity. Sometimes interests to do with 
food analysis and research and methods of distribution can be made to step up normal 
income. 
The number THREE signifies, in a rather peculiar manner, that you will either 
gravitate more or less automatically towards interests connected with the financial 
side of life or they will be drawn to you without any necessarily voluntary action on 
your part. In either event the use that you make of the opportunities brought by this 
contact will decide the degree of financial benefit that you ultimately derive. You will 
have a strong desire for the luxuries and amenities of life but will want money to 
come easily and without undue personal effort. If this tendency is given way to there 
will be a danger of yielding to temptations that come into your life and that are 
brought either by circumstances or by unscrupulous individuals who make 
suggestions that whilst being attractive are not strictly honest, and if given way to 
could involve you in transactions of a fraudulent character. Your main weakness will 
be a reliance upon others, but though this can aid you in obtaining money it will not 
bring permanent security unless you have a partner or someone to co-operate with 
who is strictly honest and straightforward. 
The number FOUR shows you have the ability to work hard and long in 
obtaining money, and with effort you can command quite a good income irrespective 
of whether you work for yourself or for others. At the same time you will always need 
to watch expenditure for you will always have an urge to spend money, and unless 
this is properly controlled you will find yourself taking up obligations and liabilities 
that will now always be easily redeemed but can be productive of temporary 
embarrassment. You are not necessarily personally extravagant, but it will be 
extremely difficult to refrain from spending money on equipment and machinery, 
especially if you work for yourself, in order to bring about greater efficiency. You will 
also want certain of amenities that help to make domestic life more agreeable, but in 
obtaining these will once again need to use discrimination so as not to overload 
yourself with payments out. In speculation, forethought will be required and undue 
risks should not be taken, but you will have quite shrewd judgement respecting 
investments. 
 
private as well as to business activities. You will benefit through constructive 
developments to do with either work or business and through proper attention to 
details, but there will be occasions when it will be wiser not to express undue 
criticism of the decisions or actions of others who may be associated with your 
financial interests, for this would only tend to create misunderstanding and 
unpleasantness and could disturb co-operation or any form of partnership. Additional 
income could be obtained by using literary ability (if you do not already use this 
professionally) and by obtaining a knowledge of such things as accountancy, costing, 
etc., and using this knowledge inn a part-time capacity. Sometimes interests to do with 
food analysis and research and methods of distribution can be made to step up normal 
income. 
The number THREE signifies, in a rather peculiar manner, that you will either 
gravitate more or less automatically towards interests connected with the financial 
side of life or they will be drawn to you without any necessarily voluntary action on 
your part. In either event the use that you make of the opportunities brought by this 
contact will decide the degree of financial benefit that you ultimately derive. You will 
have a strong desire for the luxuries and amenities of life but will want money to 
come easily and without undue personal effort. If this tendency is given way to there 
will be a danger of yielding to temptations that come into your life and that are 
brought either by circumstances or by unscrupulous individuals who make 
suggestions that whilst being attractive are not strictly honest, and if given way to 
could involve you in transactions of a fraudulent character. Your main weakness will 
be a reliance upon others, but though this can aid you in obtaining money it will not 
bring permanent security unless you have a partner or someone to co-operate with 
who is strictly honest and straightforward. 
The number FOUR shows you have the ability to work hard and long in 
obtaining money, and with effort you can command quite a good income irrespective 
of whether you work for yourself or for others. At the same time you will always need 
to watch expenditure for you will always have an urge to spend money, and unless 
this is properly controlled you will find yourself taking up obligations and liabilities 
that will now always be easily redeemed but can be productive of temporary 
embarrassment. You are not necessarily personally extravagant, but it will be 
extremely difficult to refrain from spending money on equipment and machinery, 
especially if you work for yourself, in order to bring about greater efficiency. You will 
also want certain of amenities that help to make domestic life more agreeable, but in 
obtaining these will once again need to use discrimination so as not to overload 
yourself with payments out. In speculation, forethought will be required and undue 
risks should not be taken, but you will have quite shrewd judgement respecting 
investments. 
42

--- PAGE 44 of 67 ---

43
 
The number FIVE is an exceptionally fortunate number to have as ruler over 
your financial affairs and shows that you will derive many financial benefits during 
the course of your life and will experience quite a deal of financial luck and good 
fortune. Benefit will come through your work and vocational interests, through 
speculation and investment and quite possibly through legacy or inheritance as well. 
At the same time there will be occasions when extravagant inclinations will need to be 
resisted and when unwise risks to do with speculation or investment should be 
avoided, for should these inclinations be given way to then temporary periods of loss 
and of financial embarrassment can occur. A great deal will, therefore, depend upon 
your own handling of affairs. A commonsense approach to all financial matters will 
ensure progress and a building up of a very substantial reserve, but a taking of affairs 
too much for granted can interfere with progress and, as stated, bring losses. 
The number SIX exercises quite a helpful influence over money interests. It 
creates a vibration of attraction whereby money will come to you, sometimes with but 
little effort on your part. Although this does not imply that you should take things too 
easily and expect circumstances or luck to bring you everything you desire because if 
you do you can be sadly mistaken. If, however, proper personal effort is put forth then 
the fortunate vibration inherent in this planet will help to bring many benefits, both 
through work and business and from time to time through speculation and investment. 
You will also gain through the co-operation of others and through constructive 
partnership and marriage, providing in the latter instance that a wise choice of partner 
has been made. On the other hand, should an unwise choice of marriage or business 
partner have occurred then the danger of loss will be intensified. 
The number SEVEN signifies that from a general standpoint money matters will 
be reasonably progressive and there will be periods of luck and good fortune. Money 
and income can be desired through a blending of a variety of activities and by 
combining your main vocational interests with others of a secondary character. 
Fluctuations will occur both of income and expenditure and in the latter direction  
you will need to exercise a degree of commonsense and not rely unduly upon the 
factor of good luck, for though there will be fortunate periods, you can also 
experience losses and setbacks through taking certain things too much for granted. On 
occasions you will benefit through speculation and, in fact, there can be some 
attraction towards the taking of a risk in the hope of obtaining a substantial gain. You 
will, however, need to see that this attraction does not become too strong foe 
sometimes your “hunches” will be wrong, and if you take unwise risks then the 
resulting loss can cause you considerable stain and anxiety and interfere with your 
progress in other directions of a vocational nature. 
 
The number EIGHT shows that the factors of ambition will be very marked in 
The number FIVE is an exceptionally fortunate number to have as ruler over 
your financial affairs and shows that you will derive many financial benefits during 
the course of your life and will experience quite a deal of financial luck and good 
fortune. Benefit will come through your work and vocational interests, through 
speculation and investment and quite possibly through legacy or inheritance as well. 
At the same time there will be occasions when extravagant inclinations will need to be 
resisted and when unwise risks to do with speculation or investment should be 
avoided, for should these inclinations be given way to then temporary periods of loss 
and of financial embarrassment can occur. A great deal will, therefore, depend upon 
your own handling of affairs. A commonsense approach to all financial matters will 
ensure progress and a building up of a very substantial reserve, but a taking of affairs 
too much for granted can interfere with progress and, as stated, bring losses. 
The number SIX exercises quite a helpful influence over money interests. It 
creates a vibration of attraction whereby money will come to you, sometimes with but 
little effort on your part. Although this does not imply that you should take things too 
easily and expect circumstances or luck to bring you everything you desire because if 
you do you can be sadly mistaken. If, however, proper personal effort is put forth then 
the fortunate vibration inherent in this planet will help to bring many benefits, both 
through work and business and from time to time through speculation and investment. 
You will also gain through the co-operation of others and through constructive 
partnership and marriage, providing in the latter instance that a wise choice of partner 
has been made. On the other hand, should an unwise choice of marriage or business 
partner have occurred then the danger of loss will be intensified. 
The number SEVEN signifies that from a general standpoint money matters will 
be reasonably progressive and there will be periods of luck and good fortune. Money 
and income can be desired through a blending of a variety of activities and by 
combining your main vocational interests with others of a secondary character. 
Fluctuations will occur both of income and expenditure and in the latter direction 
you will need to exercise a degree of commonsense and not rely unduly upon the 
factor of good luck, for though there will be fortunate periods, you can also 
experience losses and setbacks through taking certain things too much for granted. On 
occasions you will benefit through speculation and, in fact, there can be some 
attraction towards the taking of a risk in the hope of obtaining a substantial gain. You 
will, however, need to see that this attraction does not become too strong foe 
sometimes your “hunches” will be wrong, and if you take unwise risks then the 
resulting loss can cause you considerable stain and anxiety and interfere with your 
progress in other directions of a vocational nature. 
The number EIGHT shows that the factors of ambition will be very marked in 
43

--- PAGE 45 of 67 ---

44
your life where money is concerned. You will want money both from the standpoint of 
the security it can give when you have built up a good reserve, as you will invariably 
do your best to do, and as a means to buy yourself as many of the things you desire, 
irrespective of whether these are of a domestic or a business nature, or both. 
You will always try to regulate expenditure, and on occasions may need to fight 
against a sense of undue caution which, if allowed to go to an extreme, could stop you 
from spending money even when it is necessary for you to do so. From a normal 
standpoint, however, it will be the practical side of your nature which will regulate 
your activities, showing that you can be careful and yet not necessarily deny yourself 
of wither the necessities or of some of the luxuries of life. You will gain through a 
developing of business activities and by holding of responsibilities which link the 
business and financial sides of life with those of a social, public and political nature, 
and where you can use your power of organisation. 
The number Nine indicates that many of your personal hopes and wishes will be 
associated with money and with the financial side of life. Alternatively, the obtaining 
of money and a good income will enable you to bring about a realising of other hopes 
and wishes connected with the social and public sides of life and with affectional and 
friendly matters. 
Normally, the sign will give much forethought and a deal of practicality in the 
handling of financial affairs and will strengthen your sense of responsibility in that 
direction. You will be likely at times during your life to hold positions of trust where 
other people’s money is involved, but should always never becomes mixed with your 
own for this could be productive of future upset, misunderstanding and even of loss. 
You will benefit more as a result of constructive investment then by the taking of 
speculative risks, for your judgment on the former will be far better than with the 
latter. 
The number TEN signifies that you will have sudden gains and sudden losses, 
some of which will be cause through unexpected alternation of your vocational 
activities and others through speculation of the taking of risks. If, however, you let 
your originality of thought and action aid you, you can derive more gain than loss, 
particularly if you do you your best to plan out affairs ahead and to take proper 
account of the possible risks and snags that can occur. You will need to watch matters 
to do with the affections or any form of business partnership or co-operation, for any 
sudden upset or misunderstanding will react adversely and bring a danger of loss. A 
maintaining of co-operation will be essential. The number does show a great 
possibility of gain through such things as sweepstakes, lotteries and football pools. 
The number ELEVEN exerts a rather peculiar influence. It gives you the ability 
to take the long view of affairs, to correctly appraise future possibilities and to use 
your power of suggestion to influence other people with whom you have financial 
dealings so that they come round to your line of thought and action and are willing to 
your life where money is concerned. You will want money both from the standpoint of 
the security it can give when you have built up a good reserve, as you will invariably 
do your best to do, and as a means to buy yourself as many of the things you desire, 
irrespective of whether these are of a domestic or a business nature, or both. 
You will always try to regulate expenditure, and on occasions may need to fight 
against a sense of undue caution which, if allowed to go to an extreme, could stop you 
from spending money even when it is necessary for you to do so. From a normal 
standpoint, however, it will be the practical side of your nature which will regulate 
your activities, showing that you can be careful and yet not necessarily deny yourself 
of wither the necessities or of some of the luxuries of life. You will gain through a 
developing of business activities and by holding of responsibilities which link the 
business and financial sides of life with those of a social, public and political nature, 
and where you can use your power of organisation. 
The number Nine indicates that many of your personal hopes and wishes will be 
associated with money and with the financial side of life. Alternatively, the obtaining 
of money and a good income will enable you to bring about a realising of other hopes 
and wishes connected with the social and public sides of life and with affectional and 
friendly matters. 
Normally, the sign will give much forethought and a deal of practicality in the 
handling of financial affairs and will strengthen your sense of responsibility in that 
direction. You will be likely at times during your life to hold positions of trust where 
other people’s money is involved, but should always never becomes mixed with your 
own for this could be productive of future upset, misunderstanding and even of loss. 
You will benefit more as a result of constructive investment then by the taking of 
speculative risks, for your judgment on the former will be far better than with the 
latter. 
The number TEN signifies that you will have sudden gains and sudden losses, 
some of which will be cause through unexpected alternation of your vocational 
activities and others through speculation of the taking of risks. If, however, you let 
your originality of thought and action aid you, you can derive more gain than loss, 
particularly if you do you your best to plan out affairs ahead and to take proper 
account of the possible risks and snags that can occur. You will need to watch matters 
to do with the affections or any form of business partnership or co-operation, for any 
sudden upset or misunderstanding will react adversely and bring a danger of loss. A 
maintaining of co-operation will be essential. The number does show a great 
possibility of gain through such things as sweepstakes, lotteries and football pools. 
The number ELEVEN exerts a rather peculiar influence. It gives you the ability 
to take the long view of affairs, to correctly appraise future possibilities and to use 
your power of suggestion to influence other people with whom you have financial 
dealings so that they come round to your line of thought and action and are willing to 
44

--- PAGE 46 of 67 ---

45
assist and help you. On the other hand you will always need to guard against trouble 
or loss through the deception or trickery of others, and at times through dishonesty, 
actual theft or burglary. There will be occasions when, as a result of encountering 
difficulties, you will be tempted to do thins to overcome the difficulties, that at more 
normal times would not be contemplated.  There temptations should be resisted.  
The number TWELEVE indicates that, although there will be an experiencing of 
fluctuations in connection with money matters, from both the income and expenditure 
standpoints, there will be periods of luck and good fortune as well as a safeguarding 
of the main financial interests of your life. At the same time it will not be wise to take 
things too much for granted or to become careless in the handing of money matters as 
opportunities for deriving benefit could be lost on the one hand and there could be an 
experiencing of difficulties on the other hand through a neglecting of practical 
safeguards. Benefit will be derived through a creating of good will and by a proper 
cultivating of friendly associations as well as through contact with interests of a 
philosophical, psychic and kindred nature, but there can be loss as a result of 
imposition, deception and false friends, and through acting too literally upon the 
suggestions and advice of other people.  The inclinations to make money easily or 
quickly should always be resisted, for if this is given way to it can bring contact with 
dubious characters or a doing of thins that, strictly speaking, are not straightforward.  
  The number THIRTEEN signifies that you will not find it easy to resist the urge to 
spend money.  If this urge is given way to unduly it will cause you to be extravagant 
and hence will bring times when you will exceed income and in consequence will 
experience difficulties.  Nevertheless, you have capacity to earn money, particularly 
when you are able to do the work or to give you attention to those thins that vitally 
interest you.  In those directions where you experience enthusiasm there will be 
opportunities to bring about developments that can react very favourably upon money 
matters. On the other hand, there will be occasions when the inclination to make 
money quickly or easily will be very pronounced and you will need to be very firm 
with yourself, resisting tendencies towards speculation or the taking of risks in the 
hope that you will make big money or at least sufficient to enable you to break away 
from conditions of work or service that do not appeal to you. Do not let yourself be 
misled by these tendencies, for they can bring future disillusion. Consistent effort will 
be necessary if you are to get the income that you desire. 
 
  The number FOURTEEN will cause you to be practical in the natural impulse 
shown by Aries rising. It is quite possible that in some way your work or certain of 
your personal interests and activities will be associated with money matters and quite 
a deal of trust will be placed in your integrity and honesty. The acquisitive instinct 
will be marked, and from a normal standpoint you will endeavour to conserve your 
financial interests and to build up a reserve. You will usually weigh up the risks you 
assist and help you. On the other hand you will always need to guard against trouble 
or loss through the deception or trickery of others, and at times through dishonesty, 
actual theft or burglary. There will be occasions when, as a result of encountering 
difficulties, you will be tempted to do thins to overcome the difficulties, that at more 
normal times would not be contemplated. There temptations should be resisted. 
The number TWELEVE indicates that, although there will be an experiencing of 
fluctuations in connection with money matters, from both the income and expenditure 
standpoints, there will be periods of luck and good fortune as well as a safeguarding 
of the main financial interests of your life. At the same time it will not be wise to take 
things too much for granted or to become careless in the handing of money matters as 
opportunities for deriving benefit could be lost on the one hand and there could be an 
experiencing of difficulties on the other hand through a neglecting of practical 
safeguards. Benefit will be derived through a creating of good will and by a proper 
cultivating of friendly associations as well as through contact with interests of a 
philosophical, psychic and kindred nature, but there can be loss as a result of 
imposition, deception and false friends, and through acting too literally upon the 
suggestions and advice of other people. The inclinations to make money easily or 
quickly should always be resisted, for if this is given way to it can bring contact with 
dubious characters or a doing of thins that, strictly speaking, are not straightforward. 
The number THIRTEEN signifies that you will not find it easy to resist the urge to 
spend money. If this urge is given way to unduly it will cause you to be extravagant 
and hence will bring times when you will exceed income and in consequence will 
experience difficulties. Nevertheless, you have capacity to earn money, particularly 
when you are able to do the work or to give you attention to those thins that vitally 
interest you. In those directions where you experience enthusiasm there will be 
opportunities to bring about developments that can react very favourably upon money 
matters. On the other hand, there will be occasions when the inclination to make 
money quickly or easily will be very pronounced and you will need to be very firm 
with yourself, resisting tendencies towards speculation or the taking of risks in the 
hope that you will make big money or at least sufficient to enable you to break away 
from conditions of work or service that do not appeal to you. Do not let yourself be 
misled by these tendencies, for they can bring future disillusion. Consistent effort will 
be necessary if you are to get the income that you desire. 
The number FOURTEEN will cause you to be practical in the natural impulse 
shown by Aries rising. It is quite possible that in some way your work or certain of 
your personal interests and activities will be associated with money matters and quite 
a deal of trust will be placed in your integrity and honesty. The acquisitive instinct 
will be marked, and from a normal standpoint you will endeavour to conserve your 
financial interests and to build up a reserve. You will usually weigh up the risks you 
45

--- PAGE 47 of 67 ---

46
take, especially as regards speculation and investment, but if the end seems to justify 
the risk then you will go ahead. If you benefit you will use the money gained to 
strengthen your financial position, but if you should lose, then you will accept the loss 
in as philosophical a manner as possible and will be guided by the experience gained, 
in your future transactions. 
  Benefit can be derived through activities and interests to do with the artistic side of 
life, such as music, painting, sculpture; and sometimes through entertainment. 
  The number FIFTEEN denotes that you will derive money and assist normal as a 
result of proper planning and a courageous of plans into action. Many of your ideas 
will be practical, but you will need to be firm and watchful to see that others in higher 
positions do not usurp them and put them over as their own, thus denying you the 
rightful proceeds. The accepting of authoritative and responsible positions will aid the 
financial side of  life and, as a result of thrift you will be able to build up quite a 
substantial reserve. It is a number that is more favourable for investments than for 
speculation. At times worrying conditions will arise as a result of delays or through 
your vocational activities being disturbed by national or international difficulties, but 
your natural forethought will aid you in working through these periods. 
  The number SIXTEEN, although giving you the capacity to work hard in order to 
obtain money, shows that though you can obtain a very good income through your 
own work and efforts, it will not be easy to conserve or to save money because there 
will always be an urge to spend, and at times an inclination to take risks which you 
will not be able to control. As a result, money will be lost and obligations will be 
entered into that will cause quite a deal of future anxiety. In your case much will 
depend upon whether you are married or not, and upon the manner in which your 
partner handles money matters. If your partner is practical, then it will be easier for 
you to restrain extravagance and to save, but if your partner is similar to yourself  
then financial difficulties will become accentuated from time to time. 
  The number SEVENTEEN indicates that money and income can be derived from 
more than one source or through the utilising of more than one kind of activity. Thus, 
whilst the main source of your income can come from your normal work, business or 
profession, you can develop an auxiliary source that will give you extra money. 
  Ability of a literary or kindred nature can be employed, interests to do with 
transport or travel can have some sway over money matters, or there can be a giving 
of tuition or instruction to others. Fluctuations of income and expenditure will occur; 
sometimes things will be very good, but there will be occasions when obligations will 
compel attention and in doing so will create a temporary sense of apprehension. Yet 
you will always have plenty of new ideas as to how to draw in money and, though 
certain of these will not be practical, a lot of them, if knocked into shape, will be 
productive of benefit. You should, however, always be cautious both in the making 
and as to the signing of financial agreements, and should be aware of all clauses and 
take, especially as regards speculation and investment, but if the end seems to justify 
the risk then you will go ahead. If you benefit you will use the money gained to 
strengthen your financial position, but if you should lose, then you will accept the loss 
in as philosophical a manner as possible and will be guided by the experience gained, 
in your future transactions. 
Benefit can be derived through activities and interests to do with the artistic side of 
life, such as music, painting, sculpture; and sometimes through entertainment. 
The number FIFTEEN denotes that you will derive money and assist normal as a 
result of proper planning and a courageous of plans into action. Many of your ideas 
will be practical, but you will need to be firm and watchful to see that others in higher 
positions do not usurp them and put them over as their own, thus denying you the 
rightful proceeds. The accepting of authoritative and responsible positions will aid the 
financial side of life and, as a result of thrift you will be able to build up quite a 
substantial reserve. It is a number that is more favourable for investments than for 
speculation. At times worrying conditions will arise as a result of delays or through 
your vocational activities being disturbed by national or international difficulties, but 
your natural forethought will aid you in working through these periods. 
The number SIXTEEN, although giving you the capacity to work hard in order to 
obtain money, shows that though you can obtain a very good income through your 
own work and efforts, it will not be easy to conserve or to save money because there 
will always be an urge to spend, and at times an inclination to take risks which you 
will not be able to control. As a result, money will be lost and obligations will be 
entered into that will cause quite a deal of future anxiety. In your case much will 
depend upon whether you are married or not, and upon the manner in which your 
partner handles money matters. If your partner is practical, then it will be easier for 
you to restrain extravagance and to save, but if your partner is similar to yourself 
then financial difficulties will become accentuated from time to time. 
The number SEVENTEEN indicates that money and income can be derived from 
more than one source or through the utilising of more than one kind of activity. Thus, 
whilst the main source of your income can come from your normal work, business or 
profession, you can develop an auxiliary source that will give you extra money. 
Ability of a literary or kindred nature can be employed, interests to do with 
transport or travel can have some sway over money matters, or there can be a giving 
of tuition or instruction to others. Fluctuations of income and expenditure will occur; 
sometimes things will be very good, but there will be occasions when obligations will 
compel attention and in doing so will create a temporary sense of apprehension. Yet 
you will always have plenty of new ideas as to how to draw in money and, though 
certain of these will not be practical, a lot of them, if knocked into shape, will be 
productive of benefit. You should, however, always be cautious both in the making 
and as to the signing of financial agreements, and should be aware of all clauses and 
46

--- PAGE 48 of 67 ---

47
conditions before you make the final decision. 
  The number EIGHTEEN will intensify your power of imagination in regard to 
money and, in may instances, will influence your decisions in connection with money 
matters. You will want to attract money to you, and once you acquire it your tenacity 
in holding it will be very strong, in marked contradistinction to your temperamental 
restlessness and changeability. 
  Interests of a domestic and family nature will have some influence over your 
decisions and actions and it will not always be easy to follow your own inclinations, 
particularly if you are married, in partnership, or have sons and/or daughters. 
Nevertheless, their suggestions should always be listened to, as on occasions they will 
be of value, either in advancing financial interests or in overcoming difficulties. 
Benefit will come through property, and sometimes through inheritance. On the other 
hand family upsets, squabbles, disputes can react adversely on overall financial affairs, 
or demands by the marriage partner or other members of the family can cause 
personal embarrassment. 
  The number NINETEEN shows to be very ambitious where money is concerned 
and will want to do things so as to have a large income, which in turn will enable you 
to entertain and to take a prominent part in social and public affairs. Fortunately your 
power of organisation is good and thus will aid you in the handling of people and 
affairs that are associated with the financial side of your life. There will, however, be 
times when extravagant inclinations will require restraining and it will not always be 
easy to exercise this restraint because of a natural desire to have as many of the good 
things of life as you can. Unless you do restrain these inclinations you will experience 
periods when expenditure will exceed income, and as a result, temporary strain and 
worry will occur until such time as your resourcefulness has enabled you to overcome 
the difficulties. Speculation and investment will attract you because of the latent 
possibilities of making money, but it will be essential to maintain practically and not 
to lose your sense of proportion. Benefit can be derived, but there are dangers of loss. 
 
  The number TWENTY is a helpful number so far as money is concerned, for it 
draws out personal initiative and enables you to apply personal ability to the acquiring 
of money. Irrespective of whether your work is mental or manual you will find it 
relatively easy to adapt your activities to those things from which quite a degree of 
benefit will be obtained. You will benefit as well through home and family affairs, and 
this is a number that is often associated with benefit through inheritance or legacy. 
The constructive planning out of affairs ahead and the maintaining of a practical line 
of action will always bring you benefit and enable you to create a reserve for future 
eventualities. 
  The number TWENTY-ONE is another of the more fortunate numbers and signifies 
that financial benefits will be derived both through your own initiative and enterprise 
conditions before you make the final decision. 
The number EIGHTEEN will intensify your power of imagination in regard to 
money and, in may instances, will influence your decisions in connection with money 
matters. You will want to attract money to you, and once you acquire it your tenacity 
in holding it will be very strong, in marked contradistinction to your temperamental 
restlessness and changeability. 
Interests of a domestic and family nature will have some influence over your 
decisions and actions and it will not always be easy to follow your own inclinations, 
particularly if you are married, in partnership, or have sons and/or daughters. 
Nevertheless, their suggestions should always be listened to, as on occasions they will 
be of value, either in advancing financial interests or in overcoming difficulties. 
Benefit will come through property, and sometimes through inheritance. On the other 
hand family upsets, squabbles, disputes can react adversely on overall financial affairs, 
or demands by the marriage partner or other members of the family can cause 
personal embarrassment. 
The number NINETEEN shows to be very ambitious where money is concerned 
and will want to do things so as to have a large income, which in turn will enable you 
to entertain and to take a prominent part in social and public affairs. Fortunately your 
power of organisation is good and thus will aid you in the handling of people and 
affairs that are associated with the financial side of your life. There will, however, be 
times when extravagant inclinations will require restraining and it will not always be 
easy to exercise this restraint because of a natural desire to have as many of the good 
things of life as you can. Unless you do restrain these inclinations you will experience 
periods when expenditure will exceed income, and as a result, temporary strain and 
worry will occur until such time as your resourcefulness has enabled you to overcome 
the difficulties. Speculation and investment will attract you because of the latent 
possibilities of making money, but it will be essential to maintain practically and not 
to lose your sense of proportion. Benefit can be derived, but there are dangers of loss. 
The number TWENTY is a helpful number so far as money is concerned, for it 
draws out personal initiative and enables you to apply personal ability to the acquiring 
of money. Irrespective of whether your work is mental or manual you will find it 
relatively easy to adapt your activities to those things from which quite a degree of 
benefit will be obtained. You will benefit as well through home and family affairs, and 
this is a number that is often associated with benefit through inheritance or legacy. 
The constructive planning out of affairs ahead and the maintaining of a practical line 
of action will always bring you benefit and enable you to create a reserve for future 
eventualities. 
The number TWENTY-ONE is another of the more fortunate numbers and signifies 
that financial benefits will be derived both through your own initiative and enterprise 
47

--- PAGE 49 of 67 ---

48
and as a result of the influence and support of people in influential and authoritative 
positions who will be well-disposed towards you. In many respects you will have a 
flair for speculation and investment, although in the former direction a degree of 
forethought should be exercised and you should not act too much on the spur of the 
moment. Sometimes matters to do with children and young persons will react very 
favourably upon overall financial affairs. 
  The number TWENTY-TWO is a somewhat contrary number in its influence over 
money. It shows that there will be seasonal fluctuations which can react on your work 
or your business. On the whole you have a good sense of the value of money, and 
though you will not mind spending money when you have to you will invariably try to 
keep a reserve for a rainy day. Conditions of health, both personal and of others in 
your family, will react upon money interests, and when ill health occurs there will be 
a loss of income should you be ill yourself, or an incurring of extra expense if 
someone else is ill. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and as a result of the influence and support of people in influential and authoritative 
positions who will be well-disposed towards you. In many respects you will have a 
flair for speculation and investment, although in the former direction a degree of 
forethought should be exercised and you should not act too much on the spur of the 
moment. Sometimes matters to do with children and young persons will react very 
favourably upon overall financial affairs. 
The number TWENTY-TWO is a somewhat contrary number in its influence over 
money. It shows that there will be seasonal fluctuations which can react on your work 
or your business. On the whole you have a good sense of the value of money, and 
though you will not mind spending money when you have to you will invariably try to 
keep a reserve for a rainy day. Conditions of health, both personal and of others in 
your family, will react upon money interests, and when ill health occurs there will be 
a loss of income should you be ill yourself, or an incurring of extra expense if 
someone else is ill. 
48

--- PAGE 50 of 67 ---

49
 
CHAPTER SEVEN 
 
YOUR NUMBER OF HEALTH 
 
  The question of physical strength or weakness is of vital importance to everyone; 
for upon the maintainance of good health depends, in greater measure than may be 
commonly realised, the capacity to carry out the daily work and to bring about the 
developing of plans and activities in all directions of life. Ill health will react upon the 
earning capacity in many instances, and can disturb or even destroy marital happiness 
and the continuity of home life. If, therefore, one is aware of one’s own peculiar 
strengths and weaknesses and the liability to certain specific ailments and complaints, 
one can take the necessary precautions to mitigate the liability to indisposition and to 
strengthen the general condition of health. 
  The number of one’s name, calculated in accordance with the Kabalistic system of 
numbers 1 to 22, will again give an unfailing indication of these strengths and 
weaknesses, and in connection with health two indications are taken. The first 
indication is given by the initial letter and its corresponding number of the FIRST 
CHRISTIAN OR FORENAME and it can be likened to the indication given by the 
Rising Sign in an astrological horoscope of birth. 
  The second indication is once again given by the WHOLE OF THE NAME, 
Christian and Forenames with SURNAME. The final number given by the whole 
name will correspond to the planetary or zodiacal vibration which will influence the 
life generally. As illustrations have been given in earlier chapters on the computation 
of the number for the name as a whole, there is no need to give a repetition in the 
present chapter; for once the number has been computed, then the health description 
given under that number will apply. 
  To revert, however, to the first indication; that which is given by the Initial Letter of 
the FIRST Christian or Forename. This is comparatively simple to follow, for all that 
one does is to take the number allocated to the particular letter which commences the 
name and then look for the appropriate description of that number. 
  There is, nevertheless, one distinction which needs to be heeded, and that is, when 
the first Christian or Forename begins with the letters TH (such as in Thomas) the 
influence of the TH should be taken in preference to the T by itself, thus bringing in 
the influence of the number 9 instead of the 22 which normally corresponds to T. 
To illustrate:- 
With the name EDWARD, the initial letter is E and the corresponding number is 5, 
therefore, this number gives the first health indication. This, however, will be 
modified by the health influence of number 4, which is the Kabalistic number of the 
full Christian name. 
CHAPTER SEVEN 
YOUR NUMBER OF HEALTH 
The question of physical strength or weakness is of vital importance to everyone; 
for upon the maintainance of good health depends, in greater measure than may be 
commonly realised, the capacity to carry out the daily work and to bring about the 
developing of plans and activities in all directions of life. Il health will react upon the 
earning capacity in many instances, and can disturb or even destroy marital happiness 
and the continuity of home life. If, therefore, one is aware of one’s own peculiar 
strengths and weaknesses and the liability to certain specific ailments and complaints, 
one can take the necessary precautions to mitigate the liability to indisposition and to 
strengthen the general condition of health. 
The number of one’s name, calculated in accordance with the Kabalistic system of 
numbers | to 22, will again give an unfailing indication of these strengths and 
weaknesses, and in connection with health two indications are taken. The first 
indication is given by the initial letter and its corresponding number of the FIRST 
CHRISTIAN OR FORENAME and it can be likened to the indication given by the 
Rising Sign in an astrological horoscope of birth. 
The second indication is once again given by the WHOLE OF THE NAME, 
Christian and Forenames with SURNAME. The final number given by the whole 
name will correspond to the planetary or zodiacal vibration which will influence the 
life generally. As illustrations have been given in earlier chapters on the computation 
of the number for the name as a whole, there is no need to give a repetition in the 
present chapter; for once the number has been computed, then the health description 
given under that number will apply. 
To revert, however, to the first indication; that which is given by the Initial Letter of 
the FIRST Christian or Forename. This is comparatively simple to follow, for all that 
one does is to take the number allocated to the particular letter which commences the 
name and then look for the appropriate description of that number. 
There is, nevertheless, one distinction which needs to be heeded, and that is, when 
the first Christian or Forename begins with the letters TH (such as in Thomas) the 
influence of the TH should be taken in preference to the T by itself, thus bringing in 
the influence of the number 9 instead of the 22 which normally corresponds to T. 
To illustrate:- 
With the name EDWARD, the initial letter is E and the corresponding number is 5, 
therefore, this number gives the first health indication. This, however, will be 
modified by the health influence of number 4, which is the Kabalistic number of the 
full Christian name. 
49

--- PAGE 51 of 67 ---

50
  We now give the health indications of each number. 
  The number 1 in its influence over health shows that the general condition of health 
will be reasonably good so long as you do not give way to mental strain or worry. 
Directly the latter occurs there will be a reaction on the nerves with a liability to 
nervous disorders and, should mental tension be permitted to go to an extreme, to 
nervous breakdowns. On the other hand the maintaining of a cheerful and optimistic 
outlook on life, which you have undoubtedly the capacity to maintain, will enable you 
to keep in good health and to enjoy many of the social and pleasurable amenities of 
life and to do a considerable amount of travel. Travel, especially in country 
surroundings, will also be an antidote to mental restlessness and anxiety. 
  The number 2 gives you a neat and fairly compact form of physical body and shows 
that so long as normal supervision is maintained during the early years of life, good 
health will result. The sign has rule over the digestive organs and the bowels, chiefly 
the duodenum, jejunum and ileum, but also the mesentery, peritoneum, spleen and 
sympathetic nervous system. Any sluggishness of the digestive or eliminative organs 
should be promptly remedied as otherwise the accumulation of waste matter in the 
system can be the originating cause of other ailments of a more serious character. 
Some liability towards suffering from various forms of colic, affections of the 
intestinal digestion, neuralgia of the intestine, diarrhoea, and the other extreme of 
constipation, typhoid and enteric fever is denoted. A great deal is shown to depend 
upon diet as well as upon the climatic and natural conditions of the locality in which 
you live from time to time. Indisposition can also occur. 
  The number 3 gives you a well formed and positive type of physical body showing 
that from a general standpoint health will be good and there will also be good powers 
of recuperation. At the same time emotional upsets and disturbances will cause a 
temporary depletion of strength and vitality, almost as severe as a physical illness. The 
sign has rule over the lumbar region and the skin, the kidneys and supra-renal glands, 
and, from a structural standpoint the lumbar vertebrae of the spine. There is shown to 
be some liability to kidney disorders and to complaints affecting or reacting upon the 
urinary system as well as to ailments caused through an excess of sugar in the system. 
Any tendency towards jaundice, diabetes, uraemia or kindred complaints should 
receive immediate attention, whilst there can be some susceptibility to lumbago, 
gravel and stone. Catarrhal colds affecting the nose and head are denoted. 
  The number 4 gives you a good deal of physical strength and endurance and shows 
that good health can be maintained providing normal habits of life are followed. The 
sign has rule over the pelvis of the kidney, the ureters, bladder, gall, excretory system 
generally and the pelvic region of the body. Some liability to feverish ailments and 
those of an internal character is denoted and can affect the parts of the body that have 
been mentioned. Such complaints as gravel, stone, appendicitis and hernia can occur, 
whilst there will always be some need for discretion where sexual matters are 
We now give the health indications of each number. 
The number 1 in its influence over health shows that the general condition of health 
will be reasonably good so long as you do not give way to mental strain or worry. 
Directly the latter occurs there will be a reaction on the nerves with a liability to 
nervous disorders and, should mental tension be permitted to go to an extreme, to 
nervous breakdowns. On the other hand the maintaining of a cheerful and optimistic 
outlook on life, which you have undoubtedly the capacity to maintain, will enable you 
to keep in good health and to enjoy many of the social and pleasurable amenities of 
life and to do a considerable amount of travel. Travel, especially in country 
surroundings, will also be an antidote to mental restlessness and anxiety. 
The number 2 gives you a neat and fairly compact form of physical body and shows 
that so long as normal supervision is maintained during the early years of life, good 
health will result. The sign has rule over the digestive organs and the bowels, chiefly 
the duodenum, jejunum and ileum, but also the mesentery, peritoneum, spleen and 
sympathetic nervous system. Any sluggishness of the digestive or eliminative organs 
should be promptly remedied as otherwise the accumulation of waste matter in the 
system can be the originating cause of other ailments of a more serious character. 
Some liability towards suffering from various forms of colic, affections of the 
intestinal digestion, neuralgia of the intestine, diarrhoea, and the other extreme of 
constipation, typhoid and enteric fever is denoted. A great deal is shown to depend 
upon diet as well as upon the climatic and natural conditions of the locality in which 
you live from time to time. Indisposition can also occur. 
The number 3 gives you a well formed and positive type of physical body showing 
that from a general standpoint health will be good and there will also be good powers 
of recuperation. At the same time emotional upsets and disturbances will cause a 
temporary depletion of strength and vitality, almost as severe as a physical illness. The 
sign has rule over the lumbar region and the skin, the kidneys and supra-renal glands, 
and, from a structural standpoint the lumbar vertebrae of the spine. There is shown to 
be some liability to kidney disorders and to complaints affecting or reacting upon the 
urinary system as well as to ailments caused through an excess of sugar in the system. 
Any tendency towards jaundice, diabetes, uraemia or kindred complaints should 
receive immediate attention, whilst there can be some susceptibility to lumbago, 
gravel and stone. Catarrhal colds affecting the nose and head are denoted. 
The number 4 gives you a good deal of physical strength and endurance and shows 
that good health can be maintained providing normal habits of life are followed. The 
sign has rule over the pelvis of the kidney, the ureters, bladder, gall, excretory system 
generally and the pelvic region of the body. Some liability to feverish ailments and 
those of an internal character is denoted and can affect the parts of the body that have 
been mentioned. Such complaints as gravel, stone, appendicitis and hernia can occur, 
whilst there will always be some need for discretion where sexual matters are 
50

--- PAGE 52 of 67 ---

51
concerned. Proper precautions should be taken when you are in the vicinity of people 
suffering from infectious ailments or when passing through or contagion. As a result 
of ailments there can be a reaction upon the heart, throat and back. 
  The number 5 gives a very favourable reaction upon health and shows that, with 
normal forethought, you will have good health. Even during periods of indisposition 
there will be compensations and the recuperative powers will pull you through 
ailments that could prove very disturbing to other people. You will, however, need to 
be practical where food and drink are concerned. For this number usually gives a very 
good appetite and hence should you go to excess there could be a building up of fatty 
tissues and a creating of impurities in the system which would react in the form of 
boils, abscesses, etc.; or in a derangement of the liver. By watching the general 
condition of the blood and the body these possibilities can, however, be eliminated. 
  The number 6 again has a very favourable influence over health and assists the 
general tone of the body and the powers of recuperation. At the same time harmony in 
the surroundings and agreeable personal relationships, especially of an affectional 
nature, are essential for the continued preservation of health. When emotional upsets 
occur or there is a disturbing of associations the subsequent tension will have a 
reaction almost as bad as an actual physical illness, but with an improvement in these 
conditions an almost immediate return to a normal condition of health is signified. 
The condition of the kidneys and of the eyes should be watched. 
  The number 7 gives you a strong and wiry type of physical body with a good deal 
of recuperative power, but shows that there will be times when a depletion of health 
will occur as a result of over activity, over-excitement or through a combination of 
mental-emotional strain. You should, therefore, always try to regulate periods of work 
with periods of physical and mental rest, and should control restlessness. The sign has 
rule over the hips and thighs, the liver, and to some extent the lungs, therefore 
ailments can affect one or other of these parts of the body. The condition of the blood 
should always be watched, as any accumulation of impurities therein will manifest in 
the form of boils, abscesses and local accumulations of waste matter. At certain 
periods there can be danger of accidents through travel, sports or even through 
animals. In later years of life it is a sign that brings some tendency to high blood 
pressure. 
  The number 8 does not give too strong a type of physical body and shows that 
health will not be too strong during the earlier years of life, but as it is an earthy sign, 
there will be a grip upon life, whilst health is shown to improve considerably as age 
advances. There will be a susceptibility to colds and chills, to complaints of a 
rheumatic nature and to ailments such as asthma and catarrh. The condition of the 
digestive and eliminative organs should be watched and any sluggishness should be 
promptly remedied as otherwise there will be an accumulating of waste matter in the 
system and consequently greater liability to ill health. The sign has rule over the 
concerned. Proper precautions should be taken when you are in the vicinity of people 
suffering from infectious ailments or when passing through or contagion. As a result 
of ailments there can be a reaction upon the heart, throat and back. 
The number 5 gives a very favourable reaction upon health and shows that, with 
normal forethought, you will have good health. Even during periods of indisposition 
there will be compensations and the recuperative powers will pull you through 
ailments that could prove very disturbing to other people. You will, however, need to 
be practical where food and drink are concerned. For this number usually gives a very 
good appetite and hence should you go to excess there could be a building up of fatty 
tissues and a creating of impurities in the system which would react in the form of 
boils, abscesses, etc.; or in a derangement of the liver. By watching the general 
condition of the blood and the body these possibilities can, however, be eliminated. 
The number 6 again has a very favourable influence over health and assists the 
general tone of the body and the powers of recuperation. At the same time harmony in 
the surroundings and agreeable personal relationships, especially of an affectional 
nature, are essential for the continued preservation of health. When emotional upsets 
occur or there is a disturbing of associations the subsequent tension will have a 
reaction almost as bad as an actual physical illness, but with an improvement in these 
conditions an almost immediate return to a normal condition of health is signified. 
The condition of the kidneys and of the eyes should be watched. 
The number 7 gives you a strong and wiry type of physical body with a good deal 
of recuperative power, but shows that there will be times when a depletion of health 
will occur as a result of over activity, over-excitement or through a combination of 
mental-emotional strain. You should, therefore, always try to regulate periods of work 
with periods of physical and mental rest, and should control restlessness. The sign has 
rule over the hips and thighs, the liver, and to some extent the lungs, therefore 
ailments can affect one or other of these parts of the body. The condition of the blood 
should always be watched, as any accumulation of impurities therein will manifest in 
the form of boils, abscesses and local accumulations of waste matter. At certain 
periods there can be danger of accidents through travel, sports or even through 
animals. In later years of life it is a sign that brings some tendency to high blood 
pressure. 
The number 8 does not give too strong a type of physical body and shows that 
health will not be too strong during the earlier years of life, but as it is an earthy sign, 
there will be a grip upon life, whilst health is shown to improve considerably as age 
advances. There will be a susceptibility to colds and chills, to complaints of a 
rheumatic nature and to ailments such as asthma and catarrh. The condition of the 
digestive and eliminative organs should be watched and any sluggishness should be 
promptly remedied as otherwise there will be an accumulating of waste matter in the 
system and consequently greater liability to ill health. The sign has rule over the 
51

--- PAGE 53 of 67 ---

52
bones and joints, the knees and kneecap, and the skin. Aliments can, therefore, affect 
these parts of the body, whilst there is some liability to bruises and to hurt through 
falls or as a result of things falling upon you. 
  The number 9 gives you a fairly strong type of physical body, but there is shown to 
be a need for maintaining purity of the blood and for seeing that there is a proper 
elimination of carbonic acid gas from the system. Sluggishness of the circulation 
should not be permitted for this could cause poisoning of the blood stream and create 
morbid changes unfavourable for health, with an adverse reaction upon the heart. The 
sign has rule over the legs and ankles, and to some extent the eyes. Any tendency 
towards varicose veins, affections of the legs and ankles, or hurt to these through 
accidents or falls, should receive prompt attention. There will be some susceptibility 
to colds and chills, and you should not lift or carry anything unduly heavy or bulky. 
Sometimes the sign brings affections of the ears. 
  The number 10 is another number which signifies that the conditions of the nervous 
system will have much to do with the general health. When there is an absence of 
mental strain then health will be good, but should affairs deteriorate and cause mental 
worry or tension then there will be a reaction causing restlessness, loss of sleep, and 
an upsetting of the digestive organs and stomach. This number also brings a liability 
to illness as a result of sudden shock or accident, and the latter can be caused through 
travel, more particularly by road or train, or as a result of taking sudden and 
unexplained risks in either your daily work or in your hobbies. It is an unfavourable 
influence for such activities as mountain climbing. 
  The number 11 is a rather peculiar number and sometimes has a peculiar effect over 
the health. It is a psychic number and hence gives a receptivity to ailments which are 
psychic and emotional in their origin. As the imagination is extremely powerful, 
certain physical aches and pains can be misconstrued and there is a danger of 
believing that some terrible disease is being suffered when in reality nothing really 
serious is being experienced. There is, however, some possibility of food poisoning 
through partaking of tinned or preserved foods, and during periods of illness care will 
be necessary in the use of drugs. Over-smoking should be avoided. 
  The number 12 does not give you too strong a type of physical body and there will 
be some need for guarding against colds and chills affecting the lungs and the 
respiratory organs generally. At the same time the sign, in an apparently paradoxical 
manner, is indicative of a good length of life. Therefore, if you take proper 
precautions when ailments do occur, instead of allowing any form of neglect, you can 
mitigate the nature of any illness and prevent more serious phases occurring. The 
conditions of the liver and feet should be watched, and cleanliness should be 
maintained at all times. There will be some need for care in diet, as you will find that 
certain foods, especially those of a tinned or preserved nature, can have an effect upon 
you somewhat akin to ptomaine poisoning. The nature of the water you drink, and of 
bones and joints, the knees and kneecap, and the skin. Aliments can, therefore, affect 
these parts of the body, whilst there is some liability to bruises and to hurt through 
falls or as a result of things falling upon you. 
The number 9 gives you a fairly strong type of physical body, but there is shown to 
be a need for maintaining purity of the blood and for seeing that there is a proper 
elimination of carbonic acid gas from the system. Sluggishness of the circulation 
should not be permitted for this could cause poisoning of the blood stream and create 
morbid changes unfavourable for health, with an adverse reaction upon the heart. The 
sign has rule over the legs and ankles, and to some extent the eyes. Any tendency 
towards varicose veins, affections of the legs and ankles, or hurt to these through 
accidents or falls, should receive prompt attention. There will be some susceptibility 
to colds and chills, and you should not lift or carry anything unduly heavy or bulky. 
Sometimes the sign brings affections of the ears. 
The number 10 is another number which signifies that the conditions of the nervous 
system will have much to do with the general health. When there is an absence of 
mental strain then health will be good, but should affairs deteriorate and cause mental 
worry or tension then there will be a reaction causing restlessness, loss of sleep, and 
an upsetting of the digestive organs and stomach. This number also brings a liability 
to illness as a result of sudden shock or accident, and the latter can be caused through 
travel, more particularly by road or train, or as a result of taking sudden and 
unexplained risks in either your daily work or in your hobbies. It is an unfavourable 
influence for such activities as mountain climbing. 
The number 11 is a rather peculiar number and sometimes has a peculiar effect over 
the health. It is a psychic number and hence gives a receptivity to ailments which are 
psychic and emotional in their origin. As the imagination is extremely powerful, 
certain physical aches and pains can be misconstrued and there is a danger of 
believing that some terrible disease is being suffered when in reality nothing really 
serious is being experienced. There is, however, some possibility of food poisoning 
through partaking of tinned or preserved foods, and during periods of illness care will 
be necessary in the use of drugs. Over-smoking should be avoided. 
The number 12 does not give you too strong a type of physical body and there will 
be some need for guarding against colds and chills affecting the lungs and the 
respiratory organs generally. At the same time the sign, in an apparently paradoxical 
manner, is indicative of a good length of life. Therefore, if you take proper 
precautions when ailments do occur, instead of allowing any form of neglect, you can 
mitigate the nature of any illness and prevent more serious phases occurring. The 
conditions of the liver and feet should be watched, and cleanliness should be 
maintained at all times. There will be some need for care in diet, as you will find that 
certain foods, especially those of a tinned or preserved nature, can have an effect upon 
you somewhat akin to ptomaine poisoning. The nature of the water you drink, and of 
52

--- PAGE 54 of 67 ---

53
other beverages, can react upon the general condition of the health, and water 
containing an undue residue of lime, sand or chalk would have an unfavourable effect 
upon the system. 
  The number 13 gives you a strong type physical body, good vital powers and plenty 
of what may be termed life-force. From a general standpoint it signifies that good 
health will be maintained so long as ordinary thought and care is exercised, but there 
will be times when you will need to guard against feverish ailments, influenza and 
illnesses that could affect the head and face. Some liability to hurt through accidents 
and to cuts and wounds are denoted and these can again affect the head and face. You 
will find as well that over-activity of either a physical or a mental nature will disturb 
the health, whilst when increasing interference with the normally recuperative power 
of sleep, and if these conditions are permitted to go on indefinitely, insomnia can 
occur. There will always be some need for guarding against physical strain owing to 
the tendency to hasty action. 
  The number 14 gives you a strong type of physical body although there can be 
some tendency towards stoutness as middle age approaches. Considerable physical 
endurance is denoted showing a resistance to ill health with a strengthening of the 
vitality. General good health can be maintained if you avoid going to extremes in any 
direction and exercise normal discretion regarding food and drink. The latter will be 
of great importance as usually Taurus is a sign that gives a fairly hearty appetite; 
therefore, if discretion is not exercised there can be both a clogging of the system with 
waste matter and a creating of an excess of fat, both of which can have an injurious 
effect upon the general state of the health. The sign has rule over the throat, neck, ears, 
eustachian tubes, tonsils, upper part of the oesophagus, vocal cords, cerebellum and 
the base of the brain, together with the eyes. 
  The number 15 us not a favourable number for health as it brings a susceptibility to 
colds and chills, and to illness or malnutrition as a result of neglect—the neglect of 
others during the later years. There will be a liability to hurt through falls or things 
falling upon you and bones can be broken, especially the bones of the legs. The knee 
will be a very susceptible part and at times can be affected by rheumatism. Yet in a 
peculiar manner the number does gives a very strong grip upon life and is often 
associated with a very long life, whilst, if proper care is taken, the latter part of life 
will be better for health than the first part. 
  The number 16 gives a strong and muscular type of physical body, and the general 
health will be good, but there will be a liability to ailments of a feverish nature, 
particularly if a deal of overseas travel, or residence in hot countries occurs. Some 
liability to cuts and wounds is signified and can affect the head and face. Care will 
always be required in the handling of machinery, instruments and knives and anything 
of an inflammatory nature. It is a masculine number and hence more favourable for 
men than for women. The inclination towards the taking of risks is accentuated and 
other beverages, can react upon the general condition of the health, and water 
containing an undue residue of lime, sand or chalk would have an unfavourable effect 
upon the system. 
The number 13 gives you a strong type physical body, good vital powers and plenty 
of what may be termed life-force. From a general standpoint it signifies that good 
health will be maintained so long as ordinary thought and care is exercised, but there 
will be times when you will need to guard against feverish ailments, influenza and 
illnesses that could affect the head and face. Some liability to hurt through accidents 
and to cuts and wounds are denoted and these can again affect the head and face. You 
will find as well that over-activity of either a physical or a mental nature will disturb 
the health, whilst when increasing interference with the normally recuperative power 
of sleep, and if these conditions are permitted to go on indefinitely, insomnia can 
occur. There will always be some need for guarding against physical strain owing to 
the tendency to hasty action. 
The number 14 gives you a strong type of physical body although there can be 
some tendency towards stoutness as middle age approaches. Considerable physical 
endurance is denoted showing a resistance to ill health with a strengthening of the 
vitality. General good health can be maintained if you avoid going to extremes in any 
direction and exercise normal discretion regarding food and drink. The latter will be 
of great importance as usually Taurus is a sign that gives a fairly hearty appetite; 
therefore, if discretion is not exercised there can be both a clogging of the system with 
waste matter and a creating of an excess of fat, both of which can have an injurious 
effect upon the general state of the health. The sign has rule over the throat, neck, ears, 
eustachian tubes, tonsils, upper part of the oesophagus, vocal cords, cerebellum and 
the base of the brain, together with the eyes. 
The number 15 us not a favourable number for health as it brings a susceptibility to 
colds and chills, and to illness or malnutrition as a result of neglect—the neglect of 
others during the later years. There will be a liability to hurt through falls or things 
falling upon you and bones can be broken, especially the bones of the legs. The knee 
will be a very susceptible part and at times can be affected by rheumatism. Yet in a 
peculiar manner the number does gives a very strong grip upon life and is often 
associated with a very long life, whilst, if proper care is taken, the latter part of life 
will be better for health than the first part. 
The number 16 gives a strong and muscular type of physical body, and the general 
health will be good, but there will be a liability to ailments of a feverish nature, 
particularly if a deal of overseas travel, or residence in hot countries occurs. Some 
liability to cuts and wounds is signified and can affect the head and face. Care will 
always be required in the handling of machinery, instruments and knives and anything 
of an inflammatory nature. It is a masculine number and hence more favourable for 
men than for women. The inclination towards the taking of risks is accentuated and 
53

--- PAGE 55 of 67 ---

54
can lead to accidents. 
  The number 17 gives you a fairly strong type of physical body but shows that 
over-activity, either mental or physical, can react upon the health and cause 
indisposition. The sign has rule over the arms, shoulders and hands, the lungs, breath 
and blood, whilst from a structural standpoint it governs the clavicle, scapula, 
humerus, radius, ulna, carpal and metacarpal bones and upper ribs. Some liability to 
complaints affecting these parts of the body is denoted, such as bronchitis, asthma, 
pleurisy and other lung troubles, whilst nervous disorders can arise through mental 
overstrain, and there can be injuries to, or fractures of, the upper limbs as a result of 
accidents. Mental excitements or any form of undue study or intense mental strain 
will disturb the health and this can be caused through matters to do with work or with 
the more private side of life going awry. 
  The number 18 does not give too strong a type of physical body and there will be a 
great deal of receptivity to conditions in the surroundings and to matters regarding 
food and drink, so that health can be disturbed as a result of domestic worries and the 
stomach and abdominal region of the body can be upset through a wrong diet. At the 
same time the sign gives an undoubted hold upon life and is indicative of a good 
length of life. From a general standpoint it has rule over the whole of the chest cavity, 
the breasts, axillae, apigastric region, the stomach and abdominal region, whilst from 
a structural standpoint it governs the sternum, ensiform cartilage and part of the ribs. 
Aliments can, therefore, affect these various parts of the body causing digestive and 
gastric troubles, dry coughs affecting the chest and ailments in which there is a 
preponderance of fluid or phlegm. 
  The number 19 gives you a strong and well formed type of physical body and, as it 
is the strongest physical sign in the zodiac, it is indicative of good health from a 
general standpoint. It shows, however, that when you are indisposed you can suffer 
rather severely, although with care the indisposition is usually overcome fairly quickly. 
The sign has rule over the spine and the back, the heart and blood, and from a 
structural standpoint the dorsal vertebrae of the spine in particular. Some liability to 
feverish disorders is shown and complaints can affect the parts of the body that have 
been mentioned. Undue excitement or over-activity can react on the heart. Treatment 
of an osteopathic and manipulative nature would prove to be helpful. 
  The number 20 brings a susceptibility to ailments of a functional nature, and shows 
that personal cleanliness under all circumstances will be essential for the maintaining 
of good health. As it rules the stomach and abdominal region of the body, some 
thought will be required in diet, and pastry concoctions should not be partaken of as 
they could cause digestive upsets. The breasts and the womb are also under the 
influences of this number and, with a woman, carelessness can lead to indisposition 
and to a disturbing of the feminine functions. Yet it is another number that is more 
helpful during the later years of life and is one often associated with longevity. 
can lead to accidents. 
The number 17 gives you a fairly strong type of physical body but shows that 
over-activity, either mental or physical, can react upon the health and cause 
indisposition. The sign has rule over the arms, shoulders and hands, the lungs, breath 
and blood, whilst from a structural standpoint it governs the clavicle, scapula, 
humerus, radius, ulna, carpal and metacarpal bones and upper ribs. Some liability to 
complaints affecting these parts of the body is denoted, such as bronchitis, asthma, 
pleurisy and other lung troubles, whilst nervous disorders can arise through mental 
overstrain, and there can be injuries to, or fractures of, the upper limbs as a result of 
accidents. Mental excitements or any form of undue study or intense mental strain 
will disturb the health and this can be caused through matters to do with work or with 
the more private side of life going awry. 
The number 18 does not give too strong a type of physical body and there will be a 
great deal of receptivity to conditions in the surroundings and to matters regarding 
food and drink, so that health can be disturbed as a result of domestic worries and the 
stomach and abdominal region of the body can be upset through a wrong diet. At the 
same time the sign gives an undoubted hold upon life and is indicative of a good 
length of life. From a general standpoint it has rule over the whole of the chest cavity, 
the breasts, axillae, apigastric region, the stomach and abdominal region, whilst from 
a structural standpoint it governs the sternum, ensiform cartilage and part of the ribs. 
Aliments can, therefore, affect these various parts of the body causing digestive and 
gastric troubles, dry coughs affecting the chest and ailments in which there is a 
preponderance of fluid or phlegm. 
The number 19 gives you a strong and well formed type of physical body and, as it 
is the strongest physical sign in the zodiac, it is indicative of good health from a 
general standpoint. It shows, however, that when you are indisposed you can suffer 
rather severely, although with care the indisposition is usually overcome fairly quickly. 
The sign has rule over the spine and the back, the heart and blood, and from a 
structural standpoint the dorsal vertebrae of the spine in particular. Some liability to 
feverish disorders is shown and complaints can affect the parts of the body that have 
been mentioned. Undue excitement or over-activity can react on the heart. Treatment 
of an osteopathic and manipulative nature would prove to be helpful. 
The number 20 brings a susceptibility to ailments of a functional nature, and shows 
that personal cleanliness under all circumstances will be essential for the maintaining 
of good health. As it rules the stomach and abdominal region of the body, some 
thought will be required in diet, and pastry concoctions should not be partaken of as 
they could cause digestive upsets. The breasts and the womb are also under the 
influences of this number and, with a woman, carelessness can lead to indisposition 
and to a disturbing of the feminine functions. Yet it is another number that is more 
helpful during the later years of life and is one often associated with longevity. 
54

--- PAGE 56 of 67 ---

55
  The number 21 is a strongly vital number and normally gives extremely good health. 
It governs the blood and the heart, and warns against any form of activity or 
over-exertion which could impoverish the blood or react upon the condition of the 
heart. Sometimes it brings a liability to disorders of an infectious character, but more 
usually during the younger years of life. Sport in moderation will help to preserve 
good health and the natural strength is shown to continue until well into the 60’s, but 
after 65 natural precautions should certainly be maintained and , despite the feeling of 
robustness, risks should not be taken. 
  The number 22 shows that the season of the year during which you were born will 
have a great deal to do with the general condition of health. If you were born in the 
Spring there will be a need for regulating over-activity and for controlling both 
physical and mental restlessness. If you were born in the Summer your vitality is goo 
but outbursts of temper could be injurious. If born in the Autumn much will depend 
upon your associations with others and your marital life. If happy, health will be good, 
but if unhappy or born in the Winter you will need to guard against colds and should 
always keep warm. Health will not be strong during the first part of life but will 
strengthen as age increases. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The number 21 is a strongly vital number and normally gives extremely good health. 
It governs the blood and the heart, and warns against any form of activity or 
over-exertion which could impoverish the blood or react upon the condition of the 
heart. Sometimes it brings a liability to disorders of an infectious character, but more 
usually during the younger years of life. Sport in moderation will help to preserve 
good health and the natural strength is shown to continue until well into the 60’s, but 
after 65 natural precautions should certainly be maintained and , despite the feeling of 
robustness, risks should not be taken. 
The number 22 shows that the season of the year during which you were born will 
have a great deal to do with the general condition of health. If you were born in the 
Spring there will be a need for regulating over-activity and for controlling both 
physical and mental restlessness. If you were born in the Summer your vitality is goo 
but outbursts of temper could be injurious. If born in the Autumn much will depend 
upon your associations with others and your marital life. If happy, health will be good, 
but if unhappy or born in the Winter you will need to guard against colds and should 
always keep warm. Health will not be strong during the first part of life but will 
strengthen as age increases. 
55

--- PAGE 57 of 67 ---

56
 
CHAPTER EIGHT 
 
COLOUR AND NUMBERS 
 
  In the same way as each number from 1 to 22 has its specific influence over 
character, luck, money, marriage and health, so it has rule over a particular colour, and 
the colour shown by your PERSONAL NUMBER, that is the number derived from 
your Christian name or names, will indicate your lucky colour and you should do your 
best to wear this colour from time to time, or to wear a stone or gem of this colour, or 
in which this colour predominates. 
  Naturally with women it will be easier to wear clothes in which the lucky colour is 
prominent; but even with men it should not be too difficult to find a shirt, a tie or even 
socks in which the lucky colour is predominant. 
  The number of ONE rules the colour Yellow, and the wearing of this colour will 
help to draw out the powers of intuitions and inner wisdom. 
  The number Two has as its colour Dark Blue striped with White. Its wearing will 
assist the capacity for study, research and investigation. It is very good for occult 
studies. 
  The number Three rules Light Blue, and in wearing this colour there will be an 
intensifying of the powers of reasonableness and of goodness. It is helpful for 
activities of a social and public nature. 
  The number Four governs Dark Red, and though care is shown to be required in the 
wearing of this colour owing to its intensity and its tendency to excite the feelings and 
emotions and to cause precipitate action, if this number is your Personal Number, then 
the wearing of Red will draw out courage, initiative and enterprise, and so long as 
commonsense is maintained will aid you in the furthering of your desires and 
ambitions. 
  The number FIVE has rule over the colour Violet, and its use in dress or by wearing 
a precious stone of this colour will draw out your love of truth, will cause you to be 
responsive to religious and philosophical urges and will give earnestness of spirit. It 
accentuates the vibration of Luck. 
  The number SIX governs the colour Blue in its entirety and shows that varying 
shades, from light to dark, can be worn. It will draw out the companionable side of the 
nature and will aid matters to do with the affections, marriage and partnership. 
  The number SEVEN brings a composite colour of Yellow and Brown. Its wearing 
will aid the intellectual powers and the practical carrying into operation of thoughts 
and ideas. 
  The number EIGHT rules Grey, and this is another colour the use of which will 
assist the power of concentration and of organization, and is helpful when there are 
CHAPTER EIGHT 
COLOUR AND NUMBERS 
In the same way as each number from | to 22 has its specific influence over 
character, luck, money, marriage and health, so it has rule over a particular colour, and 
the colour shown by your PERSONAL NUMBER, that is the number derived from 
your Christian name or names, will indicate your lucky colour and you should do your 
best to wear this colour from time to time, or to wear a stone or gem of this colour, or 
in which this colour predominates. 
Naturally with women it will be easier to wear clothes in which the lucky colour is 
prominent; but even with men it should not be too difficult to find a shirt, a tie or even 
socks in which the lucky colour is predominant. 
The number of ONE rules the colour Yellow, and the wearing of this colour will 
help to draw out the powers of intuitions and inner wisdom. 
The number Two has as its colour Dark Blue striped with White. Its wearing will 
assist the capacity for study, research and investigation. It is very good for occult 
studies. 
The number Three rules Light Blue, and in wearing this colour there will be an 
intensifying of the powers of reasonableness and of goodness. It is helpful for 
activities of a social and public nature. 
The number Four governs Dark Red, and though care is shown to be required in the 
wearing of this colour owing to its intensity and its tendency to excite the feelings and 
emotions and to cause precipitate action, if this number is your Personal Number, then 
the wearing of Red will draw out courage, initiative and enterprise, and so long as 
commonsense is maintained will aid you in the furthering of your desires and 
ambitions. 
The number FIVE has rule over the colour Violet, and its use in dress or by wearing 
a precious stone of this colour will draw out your love of truth, will cause you to be 
responsive to religious and philosophical urges and will give earnestness of spirit. It 
accentuates the vibration of Luck. 
The number SIX governs the colour Blue in its entirety and shows that varying 
shades, from light to dark, can be worn. It will draw out the companionable side of the 
nature and will aid matters to do with the affections, marriage and partnership. 
The number SEVEN brings a composite colour of Yellow and Brown. Its wearing 
will aid the intellectual powers and the practical carrying into operation of thoughts 
and ideas. 
The number EIGHT rules Grey, and this is another colour the use of which will 
assist the power of concentration and of organization, and is helpful when there are 
56

--- PAGE 58 of 67 ---

57
business or working interests to be dealt with. 
  The number NINE governs Dark Brown or Dark Blue streaked with White, and by 
wearing it the factor of hope will be intensified, while it aids the focusing of thought 
when there is need for the expressing of knowledge. 
  The number TEN rules all kinds of Check and Tartan colours, Black and White, 
Brown and White combinations of other colours, and by wearing one of these various 
blends the originality of thought and action will be accentuated and it will be easier to 
reach decisions of importance. 
  The number ELEVEN has power over the colour Mauve, and it is another colour 
whose wearing will draw out the spiritual and the psychic sides of the nature. It will 
assist in the developing of certain psychic powers such as clairvoyance, psychometry, 
etc 
  The number TWELVE rules dazzling White. It is a colour symbolizing purity, and 
by wearing it there will be a drawing out of the inner virtues and it will help to create 
more restful conditions and to overcome changeability. 
  The number THIRTEEN governs Light Red. Its use enhances the active, 
enterprising and pioneering side of the nature, and once again draws out personal 
courage. It is good for using with sporting interests. 
  The number FOURTEEN is another number associated with the darker shades of 
Blue and sometimes with Russet, and the wearing of either of these colours will aid 
the powers of perception whilst the Russet will seem to intensify the capacity to 
express criticism when it is considered necessary. 
  The number FIFTEEN rules the colour Black, and its use, whilst being very 
appropriate for ceremonial occasions and for evening dress, will help to accentuate 
the natural dignity and bearing of the wearer and will subconsciously compel the 
attention of others. 
  The number SIXTEEN is another number associated with Red, but with the brilliant 
and intense shades of Red bordering on to Crimson. Care will be required in its use as 
it is a dramatic colour, but it can very well be used if one takes part in theatrical and 
kindred affairs. 
  The number EIGHTEEN rules the colour Green, and by using it there will be a 
strengthening of sympathy, of the “mother spirit” and of aspiration. It will aid all 
matters to do with the home and domestic side of life. 
  The number NINETEEN governs the colour Gold. Its use will intensify the natural 
pride, will give a good physical bearing and assist the powers of vitality and 
recuperation. 
  The number TWENTY governs the colour Silver, and is another number and colour 
associated with formal and ceremonial occasions, especially if one wishes to draw the 
attention of others. 
  The number TWENTY-ONE rules the colour Orange, and this is another spiritual 
business or working interests to be dealt with. 
The number NINE governs Dark Brown or Dark Blue streaked with White, and by 
wearing it the factor of hope will be intensified, while it aids the focusing of thought 
when there is need for the expressing of knowledge. 
The number TEN rules all kinds of Check and Tartan colours, Black and White, 
Brown and White combinations of other colours, and by wearing one of these various 
blends the originality of thought and action will be accentuated and it will be easier to 
reach decisions of importance. 
The number ELEVEN has power over the colour Mauve, and it is another colour 
whose wearing will draw out the spiritual and the psychic sides of the nature. It will 
assist in the developing of certain psychic powers such as clairvoyance, psychometry, 
etc 
The number TWELVE rules dazzling White. It is a colour symbolizing purity, and 
by wearing it there will be a drawing out of the inner virtues and it will help to create 
more restful conditions and to overcome changeability. 
The number THIRTEEN governs Light Red. Its use enhances the active, 
enterprising and pioneering side of the nature, and once again draws out personal 
courage. It is good for using with sporting interests. 
The number FOURTEEN is another number associated with the darker shades of 
Blue and sometimes with Russet, and the wearing of either of these colours will aid 
the powers of perception whilst the Russet will seem to intensify the capacity to 
express criticism when it is considered necessary. 
The number FIFTEEN rules the colour Black, and its use, whilst being very 
appropriate for ceremonial occasions and for evening dress, will help to accentuate 
the natural dignity and bearing of the wearer and will subconsciously compel the 
attention of others. 
The number SIXTEEN is another number associated with Red, but with the brilliant 
and intense shades of Red bordering on to Crimson. Care will be required in its use as 
it is a dramatic colour, but it can very well be used if one takes part in theatrical and 
kindred affairs. 
The number EIGHTEEN rules the colour Green, and by using it there will be a 
strengthening of sympathy, of the “mother spirit” and of aspiration. It will aid all 
matters to do with the home and domestic side of life. 
The number NINETEEN governs the colour Gold. Its use will intensify the natural 
pride, will give a good physical bearing and assist the powers of vitality and 
recuperation. 
The number TWENTY governs the colour Silver, and is another number and colour 
associated with formal and ceremonial occasions, especially if one wishes to draw the 
attention of others. 
The number TWENTY-ONE rules the colour Orange, and this is another spiritual 
57

--- PAGE 59 of 67 ---

58
colour and one that will draw out the artistic side if the nature. 
  The number TWENTY-TWO governs pale Greenish Blue, and the wearing of this 
colour is favourable for bringing about a blending of domestic with social activities, 
and for creating harmony. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
colour and one that will draw out the artistic side if the nature. 
The number TWENTY-TWO governs pale Greenish Blue, and the wearing of this 
colour is favourable for bringing about a blending of domestic with social activities, 
and for creating harmony. 
58

--- PAGE 60 of 67 ---

59
 
CHAPTER NINE 
 
NUMBER AND SPECULATION 
 
  The following chapter is written essentially from the point of view of the resident in 
Great Britain, although the principles expounded through Numerology can be used 
throughout in any similar way in any country of the world, provided one has the 
necessary local knowledge. They have greyhound racing tracks in Chicago similar to 
those in London. The dogs race out of traps numbered 1-6, and if the combination of 
lucky numbers succeeds in London, it could be equally successful in Chicago—or in 
any other place in the world. 
  In some measure the numbers forecast concerning the winning teams in Football 
can be made in any country where Football is played and fostered, for the purpose of 
gambling for capital gains. 
  Any information concerning stock and Share transactions can be used by anyone 
interested since a large proportion of Securities quoted on the Stock Exchanges can be 
traded in other parts of the world. 
 
Football Pools 
  Although infallibility is not claimed, it should be possible to work out a system of 
forecasting for football pools by the use of numbers. The name of each team 
obviously has a numerical value, and if the teams playing each other possess the same 
value, then the possibility should be toward a draw; if, however, the two numbers 
differ attention should be paid to whether the numbers are positive or negative. The 
positive numbers, as a rule being the stronger, should add to the team’s chances. A 
further check can be made by working out the number of the date on which the match 
is played—e.g. 23/1/1958. By adding the units of this date together we have a total 29 
which, reduced to 22 or under in accord with the Kabalistic system, reduces to 11. All 
odd numbers are positive and even numbers negative. 
  For the convenience of readers we append below a list of all the football teams 
together with their individual numbers, taking first the total number and then the 
reduced number, again in terms of Kabala. The names have been taken according to 
popular use. 
LIST OF FOOTBALL TEAMS SHOWING NUMBERS 
                      Reduces                                  Reduces 
                     Total 
To                                 Total    To 
Arsenal  
 
 
74 11  
 
Airdrie 
 
 
70    7 
Aston Villa 
 
 
115 7 
 
 
Albion 
 
 
55   10 
                       
CHAPTER NINE 
NUMBER AND SPECULATION 
The following chapter is written essentially from the point of view of the resident in 
Great Britain, although the principles expounded through Numerology can be used 
throughout in any similar way in any country of the world, provided one has the 
necessary local knowledge. They have greyhound racing tracks in Chicago similar to 
those in London. The dogs race out of traps numbered 1-6, and if the combination of 
lucky numbers succeeds in London, it could be equally successful in Chicago—or in 
any other place in the world. 
In some measure the numbers forecast concerning the winning teams in Football 
can be made in any country where Football is played and fostered, for the purpose of 
gambling for capital gains. 
Any information concerning stock and Share transactions can be used by anyone 
interested since a large proportion of Securities quoted on the Stock Exchanges can be 
traded in other parts of the world. 
Football Pools 
Although infallibility is not claimed, it should be possible to work out a system of 
forecasting for football pools by the use of numbers. The name of each team 
obviously has a numerical value, and if the teams playing each other possess the same 
value, then the possibility should be toward a draw; if, however, the two numbers 
differ attention should be paid to whether the numbers are positive or negative. The 
positive numbers, as a rule being the stronger, should add to the team’s chances. A 
further check can be made by working out the number of the date on which the match 
is played—e.g. 23/1/1958. By adding the units of this date together we have a total 29 
which, reduced to 22 or under in accord with the Kabalistic system, reduces to 11. All 
odd numbers are positive and even numbers negative. 
For the convenience of readers we append below a list of all the football teams 
together with their individual numbers, taking first the total number and then the 
reduced number, again in terms of Kabala. The names have been taken according to 
popular use. 
LIST OF FOOTBALL TEAMS SHOWING NUMBERS 
Reduces 
Reduces 
Total 
To 
Total 
To 
Arsenal 
74 
«#11 
Airdrie 
70 
7 
Aston Villa 
115 7 
Albion 
55 
10 
59

--- PAGE 61 of 67 ---

60
 
Reduces                              Reduces 
                     Total   To                             Total  To 
Aldershot 
 
 
109 10  
Alloa 
 
 
42   6 
Accrington 
 
 
122 5 
 
Arbroath  
 
90   9 
Aberdeen  
 
 
56 11  
Ayr United 
 
90  11 
 
Bolton 
 
 
 
82 10  
Doncaster 
 
114 6 
Blackpool 
 
 
98 17  
Derby 
 
 
41 5 
Burnley  
 
 
69 15  
Darlington 
 
116 8 
Birmingham  
 
94 13  
Dumbarton 
 
98 17 
Bristol Rovers  
 
191 11  
Dunfermline  
120 3 
Bristol City 
 
 
156 12  
Dundee  
 
38 11 
Bury 
 
 
 
38 11  
Dundee United 
99 18 
Barnsley  
 
 
85 13  
Everton  
 
88 16  
Berwick R. 
 
 
151 7 
 
Exeter 
 
 
72 9 
Blackburn 
 
 
79 16  
East Fife  
 
98 17 
Brentford  
 
 
120 3 
 
E. Stirling 
 
161 8 
Brighton  
 
 
95 14  
Fulham  
 
57 12  
Bournemouth  
 
128 11  
Falkirk 
 
 
82 10 
Bradford  
 
 
84 12  
Forfar 
 
 
91 10  
Bradford City  
 
137 11  
Grimsby  
 
79 16 
Barrow  
 
 
65 11  
Gillingham 
 
86 14  
Brechin City  
 
123 16  
Gateshead 
 
70 7 
 
Cardiff 
 
 
 
80 8 
 
Huddersfield  
116 8  
Charlton  
 
 
104 5 
 
Halifax  
 
64 10 
Chelsea  
 
 
63 9 
 
Hull  
 
 
38 11  
Colchester 
 
 
131 5 
 
Hartlepools 
 
150 6 
Coventry  
 
 
104 5 
 
Hamilton  
 
96 15  
Crystal Palace  
 
144 9 
 
Hearts 
 
 
7 
14 
Carlisle  
 
 
92 11  
Hibernian 
 
84 12  
Crewe 
 
 
 
47 11  
Ipswich  
 
83 11 
Chesterfield 
 
 
140 5 
 
Kilmarnock 
 
119 11  
Chester  
 
 
92 11  
Leeds 
 
 
47 11 
Celtic 
 
 
 
71 8 
 
Luton 
 
 
70 7 
Clyde 
 
 
 
42 6 
 
Leicester  
 
111 3  
Cowdenbeath  
 
94 13  
Leyton Orient  
166 13 
 
                       
Aldershot 
Accrington 
Aberdeen 
Bolton 
Blackpool 
Burnley 
Birmingham 
Bristol Rovers 
Bristol City 
Bury 
Barnsley 
Berwick R. 
Blackburn 
Brentford 
Brighton 
Bournemouth 
Bradford 
Bradford City 
Barrow 
Brechin City 
Cardiff 
Charlton 
Chelsea 
Colchester 
Coventry 
Crystal Palace 
Carlisle 
Crewe 
Chesterfield 
Chester 
Celtic 
Clyde 
Cowdenbeath 
Reduces 
Total 
109 
122 
56 
82 
98 
69 
94 
191 
156 
38 
85 
151 
79 
120 
95 
128 
84 
137 
65 
123 
80 
104 
63 
131 
104 
144 
92 
47 
140 
92 
71 
42 
94 
To 
10 
5 
11 
10 
17 
15 
13 
11 
12 
1] 
13 
7 
16 
3 
14 
11 
12 
1] 
1] 
16 
nO wore nS KK Onn ON C 
—_ — 
— 
Oo 
Alloa 
Arbroath 
Ayr United 
Doncaster 
Derby 
Darlington 
Dumbarton 
Dunfermline 
Dundee 
Dundee United 
Everton 
Exeter 
East Fife 
E. Stirling 
Fulham 
Falkirk 
Forfar 
Grimsby 
Gillingham 
Gateshead 
Huddersfield 
Halifax 
Hull 
Hartlepools 
Hamilton 
Hearts 
Hibernian 
Ipswich 
Kilmarnock 
Leeds 
Luton 
Leicester 
Leyton Orient 
Reduces 
Total 
42 
90 
90 
To 
6 
9 
11 
114 6 
4] 
116 8 
98 
120 
38 
99 
88 
72 
98 
161 
57 
82 
9] 
79 
86 
70 
116 
64 
38 
150 
96 
84 
83 
119 
47 
70 
111 
166 
17 
11 
18 
16 
17 
12 
10 
10 
16 
14 
10 
1] 
15 
14 
12 
1] 
11 
11 
13 
60

--- PAGE 62 of 67 ---

61
 
Reduces                                  Reduces 
                      Total  To                                  Total  To 
Lincoln  
 
 
89 17  
Rangers  
 
 
84 12 
Liverpool 
 
 
114 6 
 
Sunderland 
 
 
101 2 
Manchester United  
181 10  
Sheffield W.  
 
169 16 
Manchester City 
 
173 11  
Southport 
 
 
148 13 
Middlesboro’  
 
124 7 
 
Stoke 
 
 
 
75 12 
Millwall  
 
 
78 15  
Sheffield United 
 
160 7 
Mansfield 
 
 
124 7 
 
Swansea  
 
 
69 15 
Motherwell 
 
 
78 15  
Shrewsbury 
 
 
119 11 
Montrose  
 
 
97 16  
Southend  
 
 
96 15 
Morton  
 
 
101 2 
 
Southampton  
 
156 12 
 
Newcastle 
 
 
97 16  
Swindon  
 
 
85 13 
Notts. Country 
 
174 12  
Scunthorpe 
 
 
140 5 
Nott’m Forest  
 
224 8 
 
Stockport  
 
 
156 12 
Newport  
 
 
101 1 
 
Stenhousemuir 
 
167 14 
Northampton  
 
163 10  
St. Johnston 
 
 
164 11 
Norwich  
 
 
85 13  
St. Mirren 
 
 
125 8 
 
Oldham               54 
9 
 
Stirling Albion 
 
167 14 
 
Portsmouth 
 
 
161 8 
 
Stranraer  
 
 
124 7 
Preston  
 
 
115 7 
 
Tottenham H.  
 
233 8 
Port Vale  
 
 
99 18  
Torquay  
 
 
94 13 
Plymouth  
 
 
104 5 
 
Tranmere  
 
 
100 1 
Partick 
 
 
 
92 11  
Third Lannrk  
 
125 8 
 
Q.P. Rangers  
 
203 5 
 
West Bromwich 
 
140 5  
Queens Park  
 
119 11  
West Ham 
 
 
76 13 
Queen of the South  
190 10  
Watford  
 
 
86 14 
                              
 
Walsall  
 
 
65 11 
Rotherham 
 
 
113 5 
 
Wolverhampton 
 
156 12 
Reading  
 
 
57 12  
Workington 
 
 
132 6 
Rochdale  
 
 
77 14  
Wrexham  
 
 
68 14 
Raith Rovers  
 
149 14  
York 
 
 
 
57 12  
 
 
  
Reduces 
Reduces 
Total To 
Total To 
Lincoln 
89 
17 
Rangers 
84 
12 
Liverpool 
114 6 
Sunderland 
101 2 
Manchester United 
181 10 
Sheffield W. 
169 16 
Manchester City 
173 11 
Southport 
148 13 
Middlesboro’ 
124 7 
Stoke 
75 
12 
Millwall 
78 
15 
Sheffield United 
160 7 
Mansfield 
124 7 
Swansea 
69 
15 
Motherwell 
78 
15 
Shrewsbury 
119 11 
Montrose 
97 16 
Southend 
96 
15 
Morton 
101 2 
Southampton 
156 12 
Newcastle 
97 16 
Swindon 
85 
13 
Notts. Country 
174 12 
Scunthorpe 
140 5 
Nott’m Forest 
224 8 
Stockport 
156 12 
Newport 
101 1 
Stenhousemuir 
167 14 
Northampton 
163 10 
St. Johnston 
164 11 
Norwich 
85 
13 
St. Mirren 
125 8 
Oldham 
54 
9 
Stirling Albion 
167 14 
Portsmouth 
161 8 
Stranraer 
124 7 
Preston 
115 7 
Tottenham H. 
233 8 
Port Vale 
99 
18 
Torquay 
94 
13 
Plymouth 
104 5 
Tranmere 
100 1 
Partick 
92 
11 
Third Lannrk 
125 8 
Q.P. Rangers 
203 5 
West Bromwich 
140 5 
Queens Park 
119 11 
West Ham 
76 
13 
Queen of the South 
190 10 
Watford 
86 
14 
Walsall 
65 
11 
Rotherham 
113 5 
Wolverhampton 
156 12 
Reading 
57 12 
Workington 
132 6 
Rochdale 
77 14 
Wrexham 
68 
14 
Raith Rovers 
149 14 
York 
57 
12

--- PAGE 63 of 67 ---

62
 
 In order to assist the making of a decision regarding the relative numerical strength 
of either team involved in a match, the number ruling the hour in which the match 
commences can also be taken into account. (The hour numerical values are given on 
page 78, Chapter Six.) 
 
  In addition, the number ruling the day, and the number ruling the town in which the 
match is played have to be allowed for. The number ruling the town should be 
computed in the same way as for a person’s name, the number of each letter being 
taken-from 1 to 22-and then added to obtained the grand total, and from this the 
reduced total. 
  The numbers of the days of the week are as follows: 
 
  Sunday, 1 and 4; Monday, 2 and 7; Tuesday, 9; Wednesday, 5; Thursday, 3; Friday, 
6; Saturday, 8 
 
  To the number of the team should be added the number of the day, the number of 
the hour, the reduced number of the place where the match is played. The total 
number obtained should again be reduced to 22 or under should it exceed 22, and this 
final number will show the possibility of success or loss along the lines suggested in 
the opening paragraph of this Chapter. 
 
Stocks and Shares 
  In order to use numbers to forecast the rise and fall of stocks and shares a slightly 
different system is required. This system calls for a certain knowledge of planetary 
influence over stocks, together with the vibration of the basic number ruling the name 
of any given undertaking. For instance, Imperial Tobacco, the total of which is 167 
reducing to 14 and then to 5 (in this system every number is required to a unit) is a 
negative Sun number and the Tobacco is ruled by the planet Venus. Reference must of 
necessity be made to the current ephemeris to discover when there are good or bad 
aspects indicating rises and the bad forewarning falls. So far as the Sun and Venus are 
concerned, the Sun can only make three aspects to Venus-I.e. conjunction (good); 
semi-sextile (slightly good) and semi-square (slightly bad). Venus itself, however, can 
make good and bad aspects to the other planets during the course of the year. 
  We append below a list of the planets and the undertakings which they govern. 
SUN: All Government stocks; precious stones and metals (except silver) and 
     diamonds. 
MOON: Silver; waterboards; soft drinks; land and property. 
MERCURY: Steam railways; newspapers; road transport; Municipal and  
         Corporation stock; plastics; printing. 
In order to assist the making of a decision regarding the relative numerical strength 
of either team involved in a match, the number ruling the hour in which the match 
commences can also be taken into account. (The hour numerical values are given on 
page 78, Chapter Six.) 
In addition, the number ruling the day, and the number ruling the town in which the 
match is played have to be allowed for. The number ruling the town should be 
computed in the same way as for a person’s name, the number of each letter being 
taken-from 1 to 22-and then added to obtained the grand total, and from this the 
reduced total. 
The numbers of the days of the week are as follows: 
Sunday, | and 4; Monday, 2 and 7; Tuesday, 9; Wednesday, 5; Thursday, 3; Friday, 
6; Saturday, 8 
To the number of the team should be added the number of the day, the number of 
the hour, the reduced number of the place where the match is played. The total 
number obtained should again be reduced to 22 or under should it exceed 22, and this 
final number will show the possibility of success or loss along the lines suggested in 
the opening paragraph of this Chapter. 
Stocks and Shares 
In order to use numbers to forecast the rise and fall of stocks and shares a slightly 
different system is required. This system calls for a certain knowledge of planetary 
influence over stocks, together with the vibration of the basic number ruling the name 
of any given undertaking. For instance, Imperial Tobacco, the total of which is 167 
reducing to 14 and then to 5 (in this system every number is required to a unit) is a 
negative Sun number and the Tobacco is ruled by the planet Venus. Reference must of 
necessity be made to the current ephemeris to discover when there are good or bad 
aspects indicating rises and the bad forewarning falls. So far as the Sun and Venus are 
concerned, the Sun can only make three aspects to Venus-I.e. conjunction (good); 
semi-sextile (slightly good) and semi-square (slightly bad). Venus itself, however, can 
make good and bad aspects to the other planets during the course of the year. 
We append below a list of the planets and the undertakings which they govern. 
SUN: All Government stocks; precious stones and metals (except silver) and 
diamonds. 
MOON: Silver; waterboards; soft drinks; land and property. 
MERCURY: Steam railways; newspapers; road transport; Municipal and 
Corporation stock; plastics; printing. 
62

--- PAGE 64 of 67 ---

63
 
VENUS: Banks; tobacco; diamonds; copper; money exchange; amusements. 
MARS: Iron and steel; motors and engineering; beer and spirits; armaments; 
       Rubber. 
JUPITER: Overseas shares; shipping; insurance; paper and publishing. 
SATURN: Coal; bricks and cement; building materials; industrials. 
URANUS: Electrical; air, scientific, atomic and nuclear interest. 
NEPTUNE: Oils; drugs. 
 
  In making a personal decision as to the taking up of certain types of shares one can 
be reasonably assured of deriving benefit by taking shares that are associated with 
one’s Lucky and Money number as described in Chapter Six, and these can be 
classified briefly as follows: 
  Number 1: Transport, railways, newspapers, aluminium, printing machinery, 
making of type, accessories, etc. 
  Number 2: Industrial shares such as tea, coffee, cocoa, cereals, catering and food 
stores, bazaars, etc.; restaurants. 
  Number 3: Diamonds, luxury goods generally, watches and clocks, perfumes, high 
class hairdressing and kindred establishments, furs. 
  Number 4: Chemicals, drugs, dyes, laundries and all interests of a sanitary nature, 
rubber, breweries, wines, spirits, hotels, surgical instrument makers. 
  Number 5: Shipping, overseas shares, tin, publishing, periodicals, law stationers, 
makers of wigs, gowns, etc. 
  Number 6: Copper, currency exchange, tobacco, entertainments and amusements, 
art and commercial art, precious stones. 
  Number 7: Insurance, shipping, tin, paper making. 
  Number 8: Government securities, mines generally, coal specifically, bricks, cement 
and building materials. 
  Number 9: Aircraft, musical publishing, making of musical instruments, making of 
gymnastic apparatus, television, cables. 
  Number 10: Making of scientific instruments, atomic, nuclear and kindred interests; 
electricity, refrigerators, vacuum cleaners, etc. 
  Number 11: Psychic publications, making of psychic apparatus, crystals, etc.; drugs, 
preservatives, anaesthetics, oils. 
  Number 12: All requisites to do with hospitals and nursing homes, such as bandages, 
beds, hospital furniture, invalid chairs; all shares that cater for fishing interests, film 
production, cinema shares. 
  Number 13: Wool and woollen products, timber, iron and steel manufacturing 
interests (not iron mines), construction and demolition shares, armaments. 
  Number 14: Banks, financial trusts, leather, cattle, tobacco, dental interests, optical 
VENUS: Banks; tobacco; diamonds; copper; money exchange; amusements. 
MARS: Iron and steel; motors and engineering; beer and spirits; armaments; 
Rubber. 
JUPITER: Overseas shares; shipping; insurance; paper and publishing. 
SATURN: Coal; bricks and cement; building materials; industrials. 
URANUS: Electrical; air, scientific, atomic and nuclear interest. 
NEPTUNE: Oils; drugs. 
In making a personal decision as to the taking up of certain types of shares one can 
be reasonably assured of deriving benefit by taking shares that are associated with 
one’s Lucky and Money number as described in Chapter Six, and these can be 
classified briefly as follows: 
Number 1: Transport, railways, newspapers, aluminium, printing machinery, 
making of type, accessories, etc. 
Number 2: Industrial shares such as tea, coffee, cocoa, cereals, catering and food 
stores, bazaars, etc.; restaurants. 
Number 3: Diamonds, luxury goods generally, watches and clocks, perfumes, high 
class hairdressing and kindred establishments, furs. 
Number 4: Chemicals, drugs, dyes, laundries and all interests of a sanitary nature, 
rubber, breweries, wines, spirits, hotels, surgical instrument makers. 
Number 5: Shipping, overseas shares, tin, publishing, periodicals, law stationers, 
makers of wigs, gowns, etc. 
Number 6: Copper, currency exchange, tobacco, entertainments and amusements, 
art and commercial art, precious stones. 
Number 7: Insurance, shipping, tin, paper making. 
Number 8: Government securities, mines generally, coal specifically, bricks, cement 
and building materials. 
Number 9: Aircraft, musical publishing, making of musical instruments, making of 
gymnastic apparatus, television, cables. 
Number 10: Making of scientific instruments, atomic, nuclear and kindred interests; 
electricity, refrigerators, vacuum cleaners, etc. 
Number 11: Psychic publications, making of psychic apparatus, crystals, etc.; drugs, 
preservatives, anaesthetics, oils. 
Number 12: All requisites to do with hospitals and nursing homes, such as bandages, 
beds, hospital furniture, invalid chairs; all shares that cater for fishing interests, film 
production, cinema shares. 
Number 13: Wool and woollen products, timber, iron and steel manufacturing 
interests (not iron mines), construction and demolition shares, armaments. 
Number 14: Banks, financial trusts, leather, cattle, tobacco, dental interests, optical 
63

--- PAGE 65 of 67 ---

64
interests (glasses, binoculars, telescopes, etc.). 
  Number 15: Coal mines and coal producing machinery, pit props and pit head gear; 
slate, concrete and building materials, government stock. 
  Number 16: Iron and steel shares, iron mines, cutlery, all shares to do with road and 
bridge making and building. 
  Number 17: Newspaper, radio, telephony, road transport, steam railways, municipal 
and corporation stock. 
  Number 18: Water board shares, soft drinks industry, property and land shares, 
agriculture, farming and dairy farming, milk, antiques. 
  Number 19: Sporting interests—boxing, football, cricket, lawn tennis, etc.; 
educational matters, theatrical interests. 
  Number 20: Property, silver, furniture, interior decorations and furnishings; all 
domestic appliances, water softeners, detergents, soaps. 
  Number 21: Gold, theatrical and sporting shares, gilt-edged stock, entertainments 
and records. 
  Number 22: Industrial shares, agriculture, land, forestry, motors and engineering, 
weather resisting clothes and apparatus. 
  Some of the numbers overlap with others so far as certain shares are concerned, but 
as broad an outline as possible has been given. 
  In the buying of stocks and shares one can, of course, do so during the hours of the 
day when one’s lucky and money number are operative, as shown in the table on page 
78, Chapter Six, particularly if one does not understand astrology; and this is really 
the simpler method. Better results will naturally be obtained if one can buy or sell 
during the positive hours. 
 
Horse and Greyhound Racing 
  The use of numbers can be applied to horse and greyhound racing in a somewhat 
similar manner as that already described for the choosing of the prospective winner in 
a somewhat similar manner as that already described for the choosing of the 
prospective winner in a football match. 
  The factors employed are (a) the name of the horse or greyhound reduced to 
number 9 or under by the addition of the numbers corresponding to the letters of the 
name and their subsequent reduction; (b) the reduced number of the name of the place 
where the race is run; (c) the number of the day of the race; and (d) the number of the 
hour in which the race is run. 
  When these four numbers have been obtained they should again be added together 
and the total reduced to number 9 or under by the addition of the units of the total 
number. 
  The winning numbers for horse races are: 1,3,5,7,9. The losing numbers are: 
2,4,6,8. 
interests (glasses, binoculars, telescopes, etc.). 
Number 15: Coal mines and coal producing machinery, pit props and pit head gear; 
slate, concrete and building materials, government stock. 
Number 16: Iron and steel shares, iron mines, cutlery, all shares to do with road and 
bridge making and building. 
Number 17: Newspaper, radio, telephony, road transport, steam railways, municipal 
and corporation stock. 
Number 18: Water board shares, soft drinks industry, property and land shares, 
agriculture, farming and dairy farming, milk, antiques. 
Number 19: Sporting interests—boxing, football, cricket, lawn tennis, etc.; 
educational matters, theatrical interests. 
Number 20: Property, silver, furniture, interior decorations and furnishings; all 
domestic appliances, water softeners, detergents, soaps. 
Number 21: Gold, theatrical and sporting shares, gilt-edged stock, entertainments 
and records. 
Number 22: Industrial shares, agriculture, land, forestry, motors and engineering, 
weather resisting clothes and apparatus. 
Some of the numbers overlap with others so far as certain shares are concerned, but 
as broad an outline as possible has been given. 
In the buying of stocks and shares one can, of course, do so during the hours of the 
day when one’s lucky and money number are operative, as shown in the table on page 
78, Chapter Six, particularly if one does not understand astrology; and this is really 
the simpler method. Better results will naturally be obtained if one can buy or sell 
during the positive hours. 
Horse and Greyhound Racing 
The use of numbers can be applied to horse and greyhound racing in a somewhat 
similar manner as that already described for the choosing of the prospective winner in 
a somewhat similar manner as that already described for the choosing of the 
prospective winner in a football match. 
The factors employed are (a) the name of the horse or greyhound reduced to 
number 9 or under by the addition of the numbers corresponding to the letters of the 
name and their subsequent reduction; (b) the reduced number of the name of the place 
where the race is run; (c) the number of the day of the race; and (d) the number of the 
hour in which the race is run. 
When these four numbers have been obtained they should again be added together 
and the total reduced to number 9 or under by the addition of the units of the total 
number. 
The winning numbers for horse races are: 1,3,5,7,9. The losing numbers are: 
2,4,6,8. 
64

--- PAGE 66 of 67 ---

65
   
If the combination of numbers of any horse reaches a reduced total of 2, 4, 6, 8, that 
horse can be eliminated. 
  When the reduced total reaches 1,3,5,7 or 9, then again a process of elimination 
must be employed in order to see which horses have the best chances of winning. 
  If the reduced total is in accord with the number ruling the hour in which the race is 
run, then the horse which that reduced total signifies stands the best opportunity of 
winning the race; with the proviso that, if the hour in which the race is run happens to 
be ruled by one of the negative or losing numbers of 2, 4, 6 or 8, then the positive 
equivalents of these numbers must always be substituted, as under:- 
For negative 2 substitute positive 7 
For negative 4 substitute positive 1 
For negative 6 substitute positive 3 
For negative 8 substitute positive 9. 
  As a final factor in selection of horses, the colours worn by the jockeys can be taken 
into account, and the number as shown by the main colour (see Chapter 8 for colours 
and their respective numbers) if corresponding with the reduced number value of the 
horse in question, will often help to point to the winner; or, from the standpoint of 
experimentation, the number of the colour could also be added to the other numbers 
and yet a fresh reduced total obtained. An interesting sequence of number factors 
could thus be obtained and, as a result of experience, the more relevant used. 
  With greyhound racing there is also a need for a substitution of certain numbers, for 
only six dogs at the most take part in these races and, therefore, the numbers from 1 to 
6 only can be employed. 
  When the reduced total of all the factors involved: dog’s name, place of race, 
number of day and number of hour, reaches a 7 it will convert to two; if it reaches 8 it 
will convert to one; if it reaches 9 it will convert to five. 
  This conversion is different from the conversion for the numbers of the hours and 
should not be confused therewith. The converted numbers in this respect have no 
relation to the trap number in which the dog is placed. It is the name of the dog, with 
the other factors, that is employed. 
  Nevertheless, if desired, the trap number could be added to the other numbers and 
the selection based upon the reduced total so found; but in this case there would 
naturally be an alteration, and the winning and losing numbers, as given for horse 
races, would not apply.  
  The method of selection in this case would be that the reduced number of the hour 
into account; for each hour of 60 minutes can be sub-divided into 15 periods of four 
minutes, and the sub-period number for the exact time of the start of the race would 
then prove to be the more favoured number. 
   
If the combination of numbers of any horse reaches a reduced total of 2, 4, 6, 8, that 
horse can be eliminated. 
When the reduced total reaches 1,3,5,7 or 9, then again a process of elimination 
must be employed in order to see which horses have the best chances of winning. 
If the reduced total is in accord with the number ruling the hour in which the race is 
run, then the horse which that reduced total signifies stands the best opportunity of 
winning the race; with the proviso that, if the hour in which the race is run happens to 
be ruled by one of the negative or losing numbers of 2, 4, 6 or 8, then the positive 
equivalents of these numbers must always be substituted, as under:- 
For negative 2 substitute positive 7 
For negative 4 substitute positive | 
For negative 6 substitute positive 3 
For negative 8 substitute positive 9. 
As a final factor in selection of horses, the colours worn by the jockeys can be taken 
into account, and the number as shown by the main colour (see Chapter 8 for colours 
and their respective numbers) if corresponding with the reduced number value of the 
horse in question, will often help to point to the winner; or, from the standpoint of 
experimentation, the number of the colour could also be added to the other numbers 
and yet a fresh reduced total obtained. An interesting sequence of number factors 
could thus be obtained and, as a result of experience, the more relevant used. 
With greyhound racing there is also a need for a substitution of certain numbers, for 
only six dogs at the most take part in these races and, therefore, the numbers from | to 
6 only can be employed. 
When the reduced total of all the factors involved: dog’s name, place of race, 
number of day and number of hour, reaches a 7 it will convert to two; if it reaches 8 it 
will convert to one; if it reaches 9 it will convert to five. 
This conversion is different from the conversion for the numbers of the hours and 
should not be confused therewith. The converted numbers in this respect have no 
relation to the trap number in which the dog is placed. It is the name of the dog, with 
the other factors, that is employed. 
Nevertheless, if desired, the trap number could be added to the other numbers and 
the selection based upon the reduced total so found; but in this case there would 
naturally be an alteration, and the winning and losing numbers, as given for horse 
races, would not apply. 
The method of selection in this case would be that the reduced number of the hour 
into account; for each hour of 60 minutes can be sub-divided into 15 periods of four 
minutes, and the sub-period number for the exact time of the start of the race would 
then prove to be the more favoured number. 
65

--- PAGE 67 of 67 ---

66
 
A table of sub-period numbers for each of the numbers from 1 to 9 is appended, but 
do not forget to convert a 7 to 2, an 8 to 1, and a 9 to 5, remembering that for 
greyhound races only the numbers from 1 to 6 can be employed. 
 
 
 
SUB-PERIOD TABLE 
HOUR NUMBERS 
 
TIME IN MINUTES 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0--4 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
5--8 
6 
8 
9 
6 
2 
5 
8 
3 
4 
9--12 
5 
3 
1 
5 
8 
2 
3 
9 
6 
13--16 
2 
9 
6 
7 
3 
8 
9 
1 
5 
17--20 
8 
4 
5 
8 
9 
3 
1 
6 
7 
21--24 
3 
6 
2 
3 
4 
9 
6 
5 
8 
25--28 
9 
5 
8 
9 
6 
4 
5 
2 
3 
29--32 
4 
7 
3 
1 
5 
6 
2 
8 
9 
33--36 
6 
8 
9 
6 
7 
5 
8 
3 
1 
37--40 
5 
3 
4 
5 
8 
7 
3 
9 
6 
41--44 
7 
9 
6 
2 
3 
8 
9 
4 
5 
45--48 
8 
1 
5 
8 
9 
3 
4 
6 
2 
49--52 
3 
6 
7 
3 
1 
9 
6 
5 
8 
53--56 
9 
5 
8 
9 
6 
1 
5 
7 
3 
57--60 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
Bold type numbers are positive sub-period numbers and   
ordinary type numbers are negative sub-period numbers   
 
A table of sub-period numbers for each of the numbers from | to 9 is appended, but 
do not forget to convert a 7 to 2, an 8 to 1, and a 9 to 5, remembering that for 
greyhound races only the numbers from | to 6 can be employed. 
SUB-PERIOD TABLE 
HOUR NUMBERS 
TIME IN MINUTES] 
4 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
0--4 
7/2/3/4/5/6/7/8t!19 
5--8 
6/slo|/6f/2f/5/e8f{3i/4 
9--12 
5'3/1/5/8ef12{]3/91 
6 
13--16 
2/9/16|/7/3/8efo9f|1tis 
17--20 
8/4f15/e8f{9/3{/1{6!/7 
21--24 
3/612 |/3]/4/)9/76 
{5/8 
25--28 
9/5/8e|/9f/6f/4 
[5 
{2/3 
29--32 
4/7/3/%7/5/6f/2]s8i{9 
33--36 
6/slo|6f{7/5/e8f{3i/4 
37--40 
5/3 14/5 
/e8ef7/3 
{9/6 
41--44 
7/9/6/2/3/e8ef/9f4tis5 
45--48 
8/1f15|s8f/91!13 
{14 
i!/6/ 
2 
49--52 
3/6flf7/3/1/9/6|{5/8 
53--56 
9/5/8e]/9f/6f/1/5 
{7/3 
57--60 
7/2/3/4/5/6/7I/8t!19 
Bold type numbers are positive sub-period numbers and 
ordinary type numbers are negative sub-period numbers 
66

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 293714302-1931-Usage-of-Gann-SQ9-Hexagon-Chart.pdf
Total Pages: 7
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 7 ---

Square of Nine
The Square of Nine can be considered as an exotic section in relation to Gann analysis.
Square of Nine Structure
Starting from the center(1) and following the numbers as they unwind, an infimite spiral becomes
apparent. Looking at lower right corner of the grid, you see the squares of odd
numbers...3,5,7,9,11..giving.. 9,25,49,81,121, with each square being a distinct Square within
the structure.
This tool is an effective marker of price support and resistance.

--- PAGE 2 of 7 ---

Here's how this structure becomes a calculator...
Find the number 15 on the Square of Nine . If a stock was trading at a price of $15, what are the
price objectives using a Gann Wheel? The number 15 is perfectly aligned under the zero and
360 degree angle marked on the top of the Wheel. Because the number 15 is aligned with zero
we need make no further adjustments, just read the Gann targets straight off the wheel. The 45
degree price objective from 15 is 17. It is the next number that aligns with the 45 degree line that
travels towards the top right corner. The number 19 crosses were the 90 degree line was drawn.
We would use the phrase, "$19 is 90 degrees up from $15." Now skip over to 180 degrees and
find $23 is directly opposite $15. We would still say, "23 is 180 degrees up from 15". At 270
degrees $28 is the price objective. A full 360 degrees up from 15 is $34. That is how a Gann
Wheel is used.
Why did we skip the bottom right corner angle which would be 135 degrees? Because like
Fibonacci, some calculations are more important than others. The Fibonacci ratios 0.382, 0.500.
0.618, 1.000, and 1.618 are relationships we know are the critical ratios to identify. This is also
how the various Gann angles are interpreted. We have a circle that is divided into quarters and
sixths, but we also need to divide 360 degrees into thirds because 120 degrees and 240 are
extremely important. The angles of greatest interest in financial markets are 45, 90, 120, 180,
240, 270, 315, and 360.
Sampels Usage of Square of 9
(1) Find potential turning point dates: count the # of calendar days between significant
A. high and low.
B. high to high
C. low to lwo .
Find that number on the Sq. of 9. Now note the numbers which are on the same angle as your
starting number, and watch for possible swings at those dates.
Example: A move for low A to low B takes up 39 calendars days. You locate the number 39 on
the square, and note the nubmers which are on the same angle. These would be:

--- PAGE 3 of 7 ---

67,105,150,201,262...
Now go back to your original low; you would look for another swing point at 67 calendar days
from this low, then 105 calendar days, etc.
(2) Calculate potential turning point prices: take the price of a major high/low and locate that
value on the Square. Note the values which are 45, 90, 120, 180, 240, 270, and 360 degrees on
the Square. If you are using a major low, you would note the numbers on those angles which are
greater than your starting value. If using a major high, you would use the numbers which are
lower.
Examples: S&P 500 07/24/2002 make a low at 775. You expect prices are going to rally and
want to find potential points of resistance as price move higher. locate 775 on the Square of 9
chart, and note the following angles:
45 deg. = 909
90 deg. = 909
120 deg. = 815,933
180 deg. = 832,952
240 deg. = 853,974
270 deg. = 861

--- PAGE 4 of 7 ---

©2002 Global View Technology (http://www.globalviewtech.com/onlinehelp)

--- PAGE 5 of 7 ---

Gann Hexagon Chart
The Hexagon Chart Structure
Let's see how Gann explains the Chart.
"Since everything moves in a circle and nothing moves in straight lines , this chart is to show to
you how the angles influence stocks at very low levels and very high levels and why stocks
move faster the higher they get , because they have moved out to where the distance between
the angles of 45* are so far apart that there is nothing to stop them and their moves are naturally
rapid up and down ."
We begin with a circle of “1” , yet the circle is 360* just the same . We then place a circle of
circles around this circle and six circles complete the second circle , making a gain of 6 over the
first one , ending the second circle at 7, making 7 on this angle a very important month, year ,
and week as well as days , the seventh day being sacred and a day of rest . The third circle is
completed at 19 . The fourth circle around is completed at 37 – a gain of 18 over the previous
circle . The fifth circle is completed at 61 , a gain of 24 over the previous circle . The sixth circle
is completed at 91 , a gain of 30 over the previous circle , and the seventh circle at 127 , a gain

--- PAGE 6 of 7 ---

of 36 over the last circle . Note that from the first the gain is 6 each time we go around . In other
words, when ‘is’ have traveled six times around we have gained 36 . Note that this completes
the first Hexagon and as this equals 127 months , shows why some campaigns will run 10 years
and seven months , or until they reach a square of the Hexagon , or the important last angle of
45* .
The eighth circle around is completed at 169 , a gain of 42 over the first . This is a very important
angle and an important time factor for more reasons than one . It is 14 years and one month , or
double our cycle of 7 years . Important tops and bottoms culminate at this angle as you will see
by going over your charts .
The ninth circle is completed at 217 , a gain of 48 over the previous circle . The tenth circle is
completed at 271 , a gain of 54 . Note that 271 is the ninth circle from the first , or is the third 90*
angle or 270* , three fourths of a circle , a strong point .. All this is confirmed by the Master
Twelve Chart , by the four seasons and by the Square of Nine Chart , and also confirmed by the
Hexagon chart ., showing that mathematical proof is always exact no matter how many ways or
from what directions you figure it .
The eleventh circle is completed at 331 , a gain of 60 over the last circle . The twelfth circle is
completed at 397 , which completes the Hexagon ., making a gain in 11 circles of 66 from the
beginning .
66 months , or 5 years and six months , marks the culmination of major campaigns in stocks .
Note how often they culminate on the 60th month , then have a reaction , and make a second
top or bottom in the 66th month . Note the number 66 on the Master Twelve Chart . Note it on
the Square of Nine and note that 66 occurs on an angle of 180* on the Hexagon chart , all of
which confirms the strong angle at this point .
We have an angle of 66* , one of 67.5* and one at 68 , confirming this point to be doubly strong
for tops and bottoms or space movements up or down .
Note the number 360* on the Hexagon Chart . It completes a circle of 360* . From our beginning
point this occurs at an angle of 180 * on the Hexagon Chart going around , but measuring from
the center , it would equal an angle of 90* or 180* , making this a strong point , hard and difficult
to pass, and the ending of one campaign and the beginning of another .
Again with the center of the Hexagon Chart at “1” notice that 7, 19, 37, 61, 91, 127, 169, 217,
271, 331, and 397 are all on this direct angle and are important points in time measurement .
Beginning with “1” and following the other angle , note that 2,9,22,41,66,97,134,177,226,281,
and 342 are all on a same angle of 90*, or an angle of 60* and 240* as measured by the
Hexagon Chart .
Go over this Chart and the important angles each way and you will see why the resistance is
met either on days , weeks, months or years, and why stocks stop and make tops and bottoms
at these strong important points according to time .
When any stock has passed out above 120* or especially above 127* or 127 points and gone
out of the square of the first Hexagon , its fluctuations will be more rapid and it will move faster
up and down . Notice near the center that in traveling from 66 to 7 you strike the angle of 180* or
90* , but when the stock gets out to 162, it can travel up to 169 before striking another strong
angle . That is why fast moves occur up and down as stocks get higher and as they move from a
center of time .

--- PAGE 7 of 7 ---

Remember that everything seeks the center of gravity and important tops and bottoms are
formed according to centers and measurements of time from a center , base or beginning point ,
either top or bottom . The angles formed going straight up and across , ‘may a com’ just the
same going across as the stock travels over for days,weeks,months or years . Thus , a stock
going up to 22.5 would strike an angle of 22.5 * . If it moves over 22.5 days it would strike the
angle or 22.5 weeks or 22.5 months , it would also strike an angle of 22.5 * , and the higher it is
when those angles are struck and the angle it hits going up , the greater the resistance to be
met. Reverse that rule going down .
Market movements are made just the same as any other thing which is constructed . It is just the
same as constructing a building . First the foundation has to be laid down and then the four walls
have to be completed and last , but not least of all , the top has to be put on . The cube or
hexagon proves exactly the law which works because of time and space in the market . When a
building is put up it is built according to a square or hexagon. It has four walls or four sides , a
bottom and a top ; therefore , it is a cube .
In working out the 20- year Cycle in the stock market , the first 60* or 5 years , from the
beginning forms the bottom of the cube . The second 60* , running to 120* , completes the first
angle or the first side and runs out the 10 year Cycle . The third 60 * or the second side , ends
15 years or 180 *. It is very important because we have the building half completed and must
meet the strongest resistance at this point . The fourth 60 * , or at the end of 20 yrs or 240
months , completes the third side . We are now two thirds around the building , a very strong
point which culminates and completes our 20 – year Cycle . The fifth 60 * , or 300 * point ,days
,weeks , or months completes 25 years , a repetition of the first five years , but it completes the
fourth side of our building and is a very important angle . The sixth 60 * , or 360 * , completing
the circle and ending 30 years as measured by our Time Factor , which runs 1* per month on an
angle of 45 * , completes the top .This is a complete cube and we begin over again . "
"Study this in connection with the Hexagon Chart . It will help you . "
Jan 1931
WD Gann.
©2002 Global View Technology (http://www.globalviewtech.com/onlinehelp)

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 321139539-20-Years-of-Studying-Gann.pdf
Total Pages: 27
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 27 ---

“20 YEARS OF STUDYING GANN” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This work contains no copyright and may be freely and publicly distributed.

--- PAGE 2 of 27 ---

INTRO 
 
     While the idea of doing this work had been crawling around in my head for many months, it was June 
9 of 2016 at 4:04 pm that I committed it to paper, later it will be typed. It wasn’t until the next day that I 
realized it was started on Robert Gordon’s 110th birthday (An important number). If you do not know 
who Robert Gordon is, you will by the time you finish reading this.  
     The sole purpose of this work is to help those on their quest to understand the methods and 
philosophy of W.D. Gann, a legendary trader from the early 20th century.  I have heard from many that 
have 10-15 years in studying Gann and they can’t yet even forecast consistently. This work will address 
the issues I feel that may be stopping them.  
     Luther Jensen, George Bayer and W.D. Gann could all accurately forecast financial markets. W.D. 
Gann made annual forecasts, Luther Jensen made quarterly forecasts and George Bayer made monthly 
forecasts. All were just as accurate as each other. The question is HOW? They all found the cause of the 
market movements (cycles) and used them to forecast. This truly is step one. For it’s the correct cycles 
that allows one to forecast price. Without the correct cycles price cannot be forecasted and any 
geometry is relatively useless; we will deal with this more in depth in this work.  
 
     By definition I am a market trader/researcher and make no pretense at being a writer. This work is 
meant to instruct; it is not meant to be a literary super novel.  
 
     This writing is based on 20 years of researching W.D. Gann while working with some of the most 
brilliant people on the planet. 19 years of studying W. D. Gann’s book “The Tunnel Thru the Air” and 17, 
going on 18 years of helping others in this field.  
 
     It is my sincere intent that this work aids you on your quest to understand the methods of W. D. 
Gann.

--- PAGE 3 of 27 ---

PHASE 1:    BEGINNINGS 
     There I was, 11 years old, staring at the stock prices in the daily newspaper sensing and feeling the 
energy, wanting to get involved.  As fate would have it a year later I was put on a prescription drug for 
the control of asthma. While the drug would take away my asthma it also shut down metabolism of 
vitamin B6 in the liver leading to a mental fogginess which would last 12 years.  
     It was at the age of 24 I flushed that prescription down the toilet, despite my doctor’s words that I 
could die if I got off the medication. When my liver started metabolizing B6 I literally woke up and things 
became clear again.  
     At the time I was in college and began asking myself what I really wanted to do with my life. I 
remembered back to when I was younger and realized my TRUE passion was for financial markets. That 
is where the action is and deep down on an intuitive level I knew its where I had to be.  
     I had taken many college courses at the time and gotten into arguments with some of the professors. 
I recall my business administrator teacher instructing the class on how to incorporate, which I had 
already did over a year earlier. In fact, I had owned many businesses before my 25th birthday. My 
problem which I voiced in class was the way the professor was teaching it. One would pay a lot of 
unnecessary taxes. In the state I lived in, issuing NO-PAR stock would later circumvent, legally, those 
taxes. See, on stock one has to pay taxes on the amount. NO-PAR is equal to zero, so one pays no taxes. 
The professor, with NO experience in REAL business, squeaked me by with a D for the class, although I 
had YEARS of hands on business administrative experience! Something was wrong!  
     Later I had developed a good rapport with an English Professor. She would allow me to teach certain 
aspects of the class, which I found thrilling. Then one day I was turning in my test, and she looked up and 
said “Can I ask you a question; what are you doing here?” shocked, I searched for the right words but 
admit I was confused. She then followed with “This college is doing nothing for you, you belong at 
Harvard or Yale.” I smiled and left college that day never to return. Although I don’t recall her name her 
face after several decades is fresh in my mind. I decided that day to devote my life to financial markets 
and not waste another second on college… Sometimes people show up, when we are on our paths, as 
“unexpected” guides. To that teacher I want to say thank you for the best information I ever learned in 
college! It would be decades later that I would learn where our education really comes from and what it 
is designed to do.  
     I got my first library card in my mid 20’s and started to go regularly.  Checking out the maximum 
amount each time. I began reading variously about financial markets and related matters. In no time I 
had exhausted the local library’s 60 + books on the subject. I acquired the usual subscriptions; Forbes, 
WSJ, Barons, Value line etc. I began acquiring books from financial market traders like Jesse Livermore 
and Benjamin Graham along with more current traders.  
     I began trading mutual funds primarily tech funds and pocketing 40-60% gains which at the time I 
thought was impressive. Finally, it was time to take the plunge and begin trading actual stocks. I started 
out with a cheap charting software that came packaged with other software in the back of a book, if 
memory serves me correctly it was entitled, Global Investing. Metastock was also included in the back of 
the book. Before long I fell in love with Metastock and switched over, that was back when they were 
awesome, decades later I would have to change again.

--- PAGE 4 of 27 ---

Metastock, at that time, came with something called “Gann Angles” which was OK, but geometry was 
never my thing. It would be awhile before I would find out that geometry is only say 10% of Gann’s 
system, more on this later.  
 
PHASE 2: HIGHS AND LOWS 
     I would say in my mid to late 20’s I was a value investor, and in a rising market as long as the rise 
continues, its easy money. While I was finishing up my “library days” I ran into the Beardstown Ladies 
who were in disguise. At that time, they were hounded by people wanting to know stock picks, which is 
why they were in disguise. The method they used was also value investing. I happened to be at the 
Xerox machine at the same time as one of them so I said in a soft low tone “you are with the 
Beardstown Investment Ladies?” Shocked she looked at me, sizing me up and down for a second, then 
smiling she stated “you are very smart.” She then showed me what she was Xeroxing. It was MBNA 
which was later acquired by Bank of America in 2006. To answer a question, you may have, yes the stock 
did go up after she told me about it! 
     In order to trade I had to buy a computer and open an E*TRADE account, thus bypassing the brokers. 
E*TRADE at the time was DOS, with a clunky call in feature. Overall I would say I had above average 
profits from the value investing and had definitely caught the trading fever. Never one to remain idle I 
then began studying stock options. Unique little things that allow one to use leverage. After reading all 
the books I could get my hands on I developed over a few years a simple trading strategy, which I will 
share with you here. First you have to know what your market is going to do, is it going up or down? 
Let’s say down, so in this case you would want to do puts. Your stock is selling at 92, my system is to buy 
the puts just outside the money, NEVER in the money. So I would buy puts with at least 3 weeks of life 
left and in this case, the strike price would be 90 (just outside the money). I said 3 weeks of life left, as a 
minimum, but not over 5 weeks, for me that has always been my “sweet spot”. Over the year’s people 
have asked me about different options, strategies and models. My response has consistently been; 
“Those are for people who do not know the direction the market is going.” Back then though, in my mid 
20’s, I did not have this options strategy. Options, like so many other thinks in life require experience, 
which of course requires time and I had been doing light trading in them. I then took the plunge on 
CSCC, Cascade Communications, buying about 10,000 dollars’ worth of PUTS far out of the money. The 
PUTS were bought on a Thursday and Friday. Saturday night I began getting sick with some sort of 
stomach flu. I was bed ridden with it Sunday and Monday. On Tuesday I mustered enough energy to get 
out of bed and check on my options. My 10,000 was down to under 2000. But, and this is key, Monday 
the options had been up to almost 100,000! What had happened was bad news had come out Monday 
morning and Cascade shot down 20! Then the company came out Tuesday morning and corrected the 
earlier version! Most people would view this as “bad luck”, which in reality does not exist. In fact it 
would take me about a decade to realize the natural law which had truly caused me to loose that trade. 
Each trader has a trading frequency and when he/she steps out of that frequency range by putting on 
oversized trades, he/she will usually, almost always, loose. More on this later.  
     I was 28 when I did the Cascade trade. It would be 2 years before I placed my next trade as I had lost 
my nerve.

--- PAGE 5 of 27 ---

It was the year before this trade that I had learned about my uncle’s success. To make a long story 
short I also learned Gann was the way to go. My first books arrived simultaneously 19 years ago. The 
Tunnel Thru The Air by W.D. Gann and Astro-Cycles and Speculative Markets by Luther Jensen. Little did 
I know it at the time but these books would change my life forever, taking me to places I once would 
have considered unimaginable. A decade later I would discover that Luther Jensen worked for Gann 
from about 1930 to Gann’s death in 1955, at which time he took a break for a couple of years then 
worked for a Wall Street firm in the 1960’s. Jensen actually died at his type writer. He was a very prolific 
writer/researcher and yet in the public Domaine there remains less than 10 writings. This does not 
include his quarterly forecasts in the “Astrological – Bullitina.” Jensen died in 1980 and I was able to 
obtain private correspondence between him and the guy that talked him into writing his book. One has 
to wonder though, where all the other typed information went.  
     I knew when I received the two books (Tunnel and ACSM) that I was looking at TRUTH and I also knew 
deep down, on an intuitive level that I was also looking at many years at research. I must admit, like so 
many other the reason I looked Gann up was for the money. What I later found was even more 
important – FAR more important.  
     I knew that astrology (more accurately a fusion of astrology and astronomy) was important along 
with numerology in solving for the knowledge contained in the book of Tunnel.  
     Because both Gann and Jensen had passed away by the late 1990’s I then began a search for modern 
day Gann Traders that were still breathing oxygen. That is when I found the works of a guy we will call 
Geometry George. I studied those works day and night… literally I recall looking up and the sun was out, 
looking back up and it was dark, then looking back up and the sun was out. Days seemed to roll 
together. After about a year and half I finally contacted the author figuring I must be stupid because I 
could NOT make it work with any consistency. The author then pointed me to a place where people 
were coming together to meet and discuss the authors work. There must have been a hundred people 
there and not one could get any of it working. That is when I realized it wasn’t me or my disdain for 
anything geometry. There was people there that were masters of geometry and could not forecast at all. 
I would later find out, through a mentor that “some people spend their entire lives making Gann 
difficult.” You see, here is the rub; Gann is not difficult at all, in fact it’s EASY, it’s just well hidden! A 
question could be, in looking back, am I upset about the money I spent on Geometry Georges books? 
Absolutely not. It was at the time the logical next step on my PATH. Gann is a Path that must take 
YEARS. Only those that put in the dedication will succeed. The reason for this is Gann must be learned in 
layers over time. Like I could write the exact methodology for forecasting inversions right here. Few if 
any would know what I was saying, fewer still would be able to apply it.  
     In talking about the late 90s I also want to add something that some of you can relate to. I had lost 
my trading nerve (Cascade options trade) and was deep into research. Everyone thought I was crazy, 
always researching. They thought because I had only a part time job, which would enable me to 
research, that I was somehow dodging life and dodging my responsibilities. After all, who researches 
outside of college, who studies outside college? Back in those days it was only my wife who saw my 
dream, who saw my vision and who understood. Two books not related to Gann that really helped me 
through that time are by Mark Fisher. “The Instant Millionaire” and “The Millionaires Secrets: Life 
Lessons in Wisdom and Wealth.”

--- PAGE 6 of 27 ---

I am writing this part of this work in Jekyll Island, Georgia, at times looking out over the ocean. The 
sand here reminds me of Australia’s Gold Coast, same color and feel, with less waves. Jekyll Island is 
more reclusive, less people and more remote than Wrightsville Beach thus a great place to write one’s 
thoughts! 
     In this work I will suggest books on various topics. There is no affiliation, as these are all books that 
have helped me and others succeed. If a book is mentioned I encourage you very strongly to acquire it 
and have a read through it.  
     Losing most of my trading capital really crushed my ego. There I was having left college to fulfill my 
dream only to fail through making stupid trading decisions and getting a strange flu. I think that would 
have permanently crushed many but in my case it made me even more determined to succeed. I really 
had no choice, my back was against the wall. It was either follow my passion or go get that “desk job” 
my parents were advocates of. The thought of abandoning my passion was almost too much to bear, so I 
pressed on. I could not have lived with myself had I left the field of financial markets. Later I found out 
that Gann himself had a rough go when he was starting out several times losing all his capital.  
     It was around age 31-32 that I really lucked out. I found someone who was out there helping others 
AND could demonstrate they really knew what they were talking about. That was my first, not my last, 
encounter with someone that really knew. It was, through that, I found out the planetary cycles are cool 
but there is this level above that called the “Law of Vibration” that researchers need to work towards. Of 
course an arrow only finds its mark when it is aimed through an end goal (target). I had not really been 
able to aim my arrow as I was unsure of the real end goal. That all changed that year. I was shown 
exactly, in advance, what it (L.O.V.) could do. I was also shown that a real Gann trader could make a 
return of thousands of percent a year (The proof Gann was doing this is in many testimonials who talked 
about his incredible ability to compound money---even auditors talked about this). I was being shown 
this from people who had studied for years and were not selling anything! More importantly it was 
emphasized to me that Gann wanted people to spend a decade working on it before they get it. At first I 
could not fathom that concept, later I would learn it was because Gann knew the natural law that 
governed it. Here it is explained, below.  
     In simple terms we reap what we sow. This law cannot be circumvented, although at times it takes 
many years to catch up and have an effect, it will always!  Given that, in a nutshell, if we spend our time 
in research and study we are sowing the seeds for our future. If we enter this field by begging someone 
to give us all the answers, we will fail. Why? Because we are attempting to reap what others have 
sowed. This is an attempt to get something for nothing and thus these people generally wind up with 
nothing for something. This is why Gann did not share his methods with his son, John. Had he given his 
methods to his son he would have received something for nothing. The universe DEMANDS payment. 
Nothing and I mean nothing is ever free.  
     Let’s say a thief breaks into a house and steals 6000 worth of equipment. And let’s say this thief is 
never caught. The universe will demand 10 times this amount! So years down the road the thief gets 
into a car accident and the medical bills total $58,750 dollars. The thief wont realize the connection 
between what he stole and what he spent on medical bills, so he will undoubtedly never discover the 
natural law. The Bible talks about this in the form of tithes. Giving away 10% will yield you 10x down the 
road. Always remember the universe demands payment. Gann figured that 10 years of research was

--- PAGE 7 of 27 ---

enough to square it, for a Gann Trader. This concept, presented in this paragraph is incredibly important 
to fully understand!   
     Many are drawn to the field because they see quick riches. They do not realize in this universe, 
operating off of very specific laws, there is no such thing. A price must be paid in advance through 
research and time or it will be extracted through natural law, down the road.  
     It was also around this time age 31-32 that I met one of my best friends. We will call him PA as he has 
been like a father to me in this field, at times. PA was trading at one of Australia’s leading banks. He was 
trading a multibillion dollar account, at the time. When he first came to visit me he told me that 
someday I would be taking 60,000 dollar vacations and that money would seem like monopoly money. 
Admittedly, at that time, I thought what he was saying was unfathomable.  
      
PHASE 3: THE WILD WEST 
     It was around age 31-32 that I was made aware of the fact that Gann put all his methods in the book; 
“The Tunnel Thru the Air”. I mean I always knew it was important but did not realize it was the major 
key. I was also informed I would need the market data, from that era, to solve it. Later I would find out 
this is absolutely true. I do not see how it is possible to solve Tunnel without the data, maybe it is, I just 
don’t see how.  We will be dealing with the book in far greater detail, very soon, but wanted to leave 
you with the age of 33; I had probably read Tunnel cover to cover about 10 times and I just didn’t get it, I 
mean it was important yes, I got that, but what did it really contain? To be really honest I had no damn 
idea. Many people entered my life around this time, one would wind up being a master Tunnel decoder.  
     In the 70’s and 80’s, before the internet, it was very difficult to learn Gann because no one was really 
around to tell people “Hey! Study the Tunnel Book!” So many were left on their own. Those that knew 
the methods were tucked away, happily trading. You see, the realization that the truth is in the book 
Tunnel is fundamental, without that, one is lost within the field. In the 70’s and 80’s there was really no 
one around saying that. 
     For me a benefit of trading markets was that I did not have to deal with people, it would be just me, 
the computer and market profits. I wound up helping others and in all honesty learning about something 
I never dreamt I would; PEOPLE! Little did I know at the time that in dealing with others I would find out 
exactly what stops many from succeeding. Over the years I have heard every excuse known to man and 
no I won’t be listing them here…It all boils down to INCORRECT MINDSET. Studying Gann requires a 
sustained effort lasting years. This runs counter to the current society’s attitude of reaping with little 
sowing. Somewhere along the way we need to pick up success training if we are really going to succeed 
at anything. This training has been left out of the traditional curriculum. Now I know what you are 
thinking; “OK so this writer is going to teach me how to be successful.” My response to that would be 
no, I am not, and the reason is there are far better teachers out there. One of the best, by far, is 
Napoleon Hill. You have probably heard of the book “Think and Grow Rich.” What you may not know is 
that “think and Grow Rich” is actually advertising for the book “Law of Success in 16 Lessons.” (If we are 
going to succeed we must learn about the Laws that govern this universe).  You have heard it before and 
you will hear it again This universe is based on very definitive Laws, success itself is based on laws. If you 
are unfamiliar with the Laws, success will allude you.

--- PAGE 8 of 27 ---

I am a big fan of audible.com, now an Amazon company. Audio books can be listened to at various 
times when reading would not work, like when driving a car. Given that, get the audio file: The Science 
of Personal Achievement” by Napoleon Hill.  
     A good trader friend of mine also felt the book “Outwitting the Devil” by Napoleon Hill, changed his 
life for the better so it is also mentioned here.  
     Here is the rub. So many come to study Gann because they feel that money will make them happy. 
This brings up a conversation I had with PA.  I had asked him if most of the traders up in that bank where 
multimillionaires and he replied emphatically “Yes”. I then asked him how many of those 
multimillionaires were truly happy. He kind of contorted, then said in a soft but firm voice “very, very 
few.” You see, money is like a treadmill, the more you acquire the more you want. If you are making 
100k a year, making an income of a million appears like a good goal to have. What happens is that 1 
million won’t change the fundamental thinking. You will have more expensive things, but the debt and 
headaches will also be there, magnified!  
     Way back in my early 20’s I ran across a saying that has stuck with me even to this day. It goes 
something like this “I chased the goddess at money and she would not smile on me, I tried and tried. I 
then gave up and began to chase the goddess of knowledge, this made the goddess of money jealous, 
and then she smiled on me.”  What most do not know is that Gann did not spend his time chasing 
money, he spent it chasing knowledge. Wealth always follows knowledge.  
     It was about this time that I started to acquire the market data for the 1920’s and 1930’s that is 
needed for Tunnel. In some cases, this involved me and my friends pain stakingly searching through 
microfilm to get the daily high and low daily data. It goes a lot faster if you have people helping you. 
Another thing we had did was track down the magazine Luther Jensen (Gann’s Assistant) had written in 
from the early 1930’s to 1955 called “Astrological Bullitina”. We found this to contain additional 
information above and beyond what can be found in his book “Astro-Cycles and Speculative Markets” 
which we now call ACSM for short.  
     Meanwhile the revolving door of people entering and exiting my life for various reasons became 
much faster, more people coming and some leaving. One of these individuals, whom we will call 
“Cowboy Carl” was taking page numbers and looking for codes in Tunnel. Granted there are some there 
for sure, but the key is you have to work them a certain way. Like as an example around page 225 in 
Tunnel there is a cycle described, and that is not coincidence. Now Cowboy Carl, he seemed to have his 
own method which was pure number. He had informed me that his wife would not permit him to deal 
with any Astro at all. (This makes Gann almost impossible to understand). He would write me all these 
page numbers and crazy connections that did not make any damn sense. Like if I take my shoe size and 
multiply it by a completely random number I get page 84, which then points me to page 136. Some 
craziness such as this. The last email I received from him he stated he was becoming paranoid about his 
work. That was the last I ever heard from Cowboy Carl, but we can learn from him here. Page numbers 
in Tunnel DO correlate with a code but the code is not random and MUST be tied into elements that are 
repeated in the book. See at this point I had learned that important parts or points are repeated. An 
example of this is the Tele-Talk which was deliberately invented twice. You need the Tele-Talk, you need 
to have it working to truly understand L.O.V. So there is an order, a technique, if you will to the coding. 
Learn the techniques and Tunnel is not so hard.

--- PAGE 9 of 27 ---

We will be dealing more with this book very soon. For now, make sure you have 418 to 420 pages in 
your Tunnel book. If you only have slightly over 210 or some other number, the coding will NOT work, 
you are wasting your time! 
 
PHASE 4:  WORLD TOUR 
 
     The initial idea hit me when I was floating around my pool soaking up the Sun when I was 35. Why 
not actually meet people? I mean I had had people to my house since I was 31, some were even ex CBOT 
pit traders, but why not really get out there and meet people. I mean I am not going to invite 50-100 
people to my house. There was just one problem. I had only spoken publicly once, in the 7th grade, and 
that did not go so well! 
     Melbourne Australia was chosen for the first seminar, not only because I had very good friends there 
(and still do) but also because of its symbolic importance in Tunnel. I knew who to get into contact with 
to make this all happen, and to all of them that worked to make it happen I again want to say thank you 
as the experience was a definite stepping stone in my life. I don’t recall an exact final number of 
attendees but it was well over 50 with some flying in from other countries to attend.  
   I think it’s time to go in, Sunrise over the ocean is always a beautiful thing, when all the possibilities of 
the day hit you. Then the sun continues to rise, the heat kicks in and the pages I am writing on begin to 
curl due to the humidity.  
     For those that have never been to Australia it is a beautiful country. The people there are outgoing 
and happy with a “vibrancy” about them. The only parallel I can make is the “vibe” is like the U.S. was 
back in the 1970’s. They eat really nutritious food there. Anyone that has done any travelling knows how 
fresh and tasty the food in other countries is. Lettuce tastes like lettuce, not the cardboard found in the 
U.S. Their adrenal glands, due to the nutrients in the food, are still functioning at a very high level. Our 
adrenals produce hormones which are vital to our vitality, you shut down the nutrition, the adrenals 
cannot function and you lose your “pep”. 
     Ok, so let me put this into perspective for you. There I am, supposed to start speaking to over 50 
people in a foreign country I have never been and without any previous public speaking to back me up. 
Well, I will never forget walking up to that podium. This would not be the only time in my life when my 
back was up against the wall, but it would be the first time I would do it with over 50 people watching!  
I’m sure it was due to the eagerness to learn from the attendees that I was able to pull everything off! 
They were excited and asked many questions that I felt showed they were following along. I am grateful 
to all of them. Afterwards people would come up to me showing me their marked up Tunnel books from 
years of research. These people were awesome and I can say I am friends with about a handful of them 
to this very day! 
     As news of the success of that seminar spread, thanks in large part to the wonderful attendees, I 
began receiving requests to do them all over the world. My next one was scheduled 4 months after the 
first one and in America, then one about 3 months after that in Europe. Everywhere I went I met the 
most amazing people. It was fantastic!  Although currently retired from all of that, I would wind up,

--- PAGE 10 of 27 ---

unknown to me at the time, doing the touring for many years. To be completely honest I loved Australia 
so much that I would generally stay over there for close to a month, soaking in the sunshine on the 
many beaches I visited at the time. Eventually I would get burned out on all the traveling, settling down 
more into family life.  
     There are two things that stand out about my 36th year of life. One is meeting a Doctor we will call Dr. 
Wise. The other is a discovery I made that is critical to all traders. The principle of it is that there is a 
relationship between the stock or commodity/currency you are trading and yourself. Meaning there will 
be some instruments you won’t be able to make any money out of!  
     It all started like this. I pooled a couple hundred people I knew to see if they would tell me about their 
bad trades so I could study their personal cycles in relation to their losses. I became inundated with 
emails, like a massive wave. Out of those about three people wrote me that they could trade a single 
instrument successfully. I figured that would be a great starting point. I then went back and interviewed 
all three, seeing what kind (size) profits, what tools they used and their general trading knowledge. I also 
asked for their natal information, which they happily provided so that I could look at how they were 
“linked” to their particular trading instrument. What I found shocked me! These guys were using things 
like “moving averages” and making nice income. They had no real knowledge of Gann’s techniques and 
what they were using could best be described as a “gut feeling” to trade. But, and this is the key, their 
success was only applicable to one instrument, the minute that they deviated and traded something 
else, losses quickly followed! This meant it was instrument specific!!! As long as they traded that one 
specific instrument they were almost always profitable. For W.D. Gann, that instrument was Mex Pete, 
Mexican Petroleum, in which Gann states “I was almost always profitable in it, it was like I was making 
the marks myself.” Both Gann and Bayer specifically state to stay away from stocks etc. that you have 
not been profitable in. Gann himself states that there are some stocks he has never been able to make 
money in. That is saying a lot! 
     My time was spent developing systems to test this so that others could find a stock that is profitable 
to them. My study reveals about 1 in 30 will be good for the trader. So if you try 30 different ones you 
should find one that is pretty consistent as far as profits go. Taking 3 small trades in them and you 
should have at a minimum 2 good wins and 1 small loss, if not all wins. The tool used is your “gut 
feeling” on what that instrument is going to do.  
     Later I would develop paper trading techniques that also get one results for finding their “lucky 
trading instrument.”  
     About a month ago a trader friend reported he had 30 trades on his lucky currency with only 3 small 
losses, this kind of news is typical from those who look into it. Some find their lucky stock or index and 
literally retire, saying they have found their personal ATM machine. 
     Around this time frame I began having health problems, which I attribute to the standard American 
diet, appropriately nicknamed SAD. Finally, I went into get tested and they put me on like 8 different 
prescriptions and an appointment to see a heart doctor. I took the prescriptions once and flushed them.  
     I walked into the heart doctor’s office and there were all these people in like their 80’s and 90’s who 
looked at me like I was crazy for being there in my mid 30’s. He ran all these expensive tests, costing

--- PAGE 11 of 27 ---

thousands of dollars and could find nothing at all wrong. His advice was to move to Paris. Straight out of 
his mouth that is what he told me! 
     Here is what happened. Doctor #1 which I have called “Dr. Death” for years; told me to get on a no 
fat diet. Then later I was tested and all my numbers come back “Sky High”. I then went to Paris and 
strictly against Doctors orders ate all the high fat foods they offer. Came back to the states and got 
tested by the heart Doc. My levels there came in normal. Well I had to use Gann research techniques on 
health to find the cause. In the absence of fat in the diet the body takes in carbohydrates and stores 
them as triglycerides, inflating all the numbers. When I went to Paris the fat famine was over and the 
body dumped the triglycerides. Dr. Death was subsequently fired. Years later she appeared in all the 
newspapers, the feds got her on fraud and her husband was arrested for cocaine possession. Shortly 
after the imaginary “health scare” I met another doctor who called me on the phone and wanted me to 
help him with Gann. Few know this but in America the average age of a Doctor at their death is 56 years 
of age! I was sick of doctors and here I had another one on the phone, asking for my help! To be honest I 
almost hung up on him until he said “no, I am not one of the bad guys, I am a Naturopathic doctor.” I 
told him about my asthma that I had since childbirth and he said to come out to Boston and he could 
cure it in ½ hour. What? There is not cure for asthma! My parents thought I was crazy but a few days 
later I was on a plane heading to Boston. I would not know what he looked like, so I could identify him in 
the airport, he would be carrying the orange book “Tunnel Thru The Air” which I saw very quickly. We 
shook hands he took me to a hotel and said he would be back the next day.  
     The next day he took me to his office. He had cleared his appointments so it was just me, him and a 
secretary. The phone was ringing off the hook and his secretary was telling people he was booked up, 
for the NEXT 2 YEARS! He then took me into his office where there were pictures on the wall of him with 
Princes from other countries, Dignitaries and a Supreme Court Justice, whom he was best friends with 
for 20 years.  
     He gave me some natural herbs which he got from the pharmacy he owned downstairs and the 
asthma went away just like he said! 
     We went out to lunch and he explained that he had spent millions on “Gann Stuff” and I quickly 
deduced he could still not forecast. With my usual researcher inquisitiveness, I changed the subject and 
began to probe him about his story and what he actually does.  
     Not yet written here, his secretary, when we were back in the office, had come up to meet me. She 
told me that the Dr. had cured her bedridden mother of MS by slipping certain herbal mixtures into her 
while she was in the hospital. That testimonial combined with my relieved asthma condition, the 
pictures on the wall, something was going on here and I had to get to the bottom of it.  
     When I began asking questions Dr. Wise informed me his specialty was cancer. He said he could cure 
all but 4 types of it. Naturally I asked him why he could not cure the 4 and his response, with a sullen 
look, was “I am not hitting the right receptors.” He then went on to state that traditional allopathic 
medicine in the U.S. is all fraud and that the cures are already here but are suppressed, so that the 
“doctors” can make all the money they can.  I asked him how he learned his trade and he said he was a 
graduate of Bastyr University that when he was there the average age of his teachers was 86! (Recall in 
the U.S. the average age of an allopathic doctor at death is 56) This is simple natural law. You see when 
you help people, TRULY help them, there is a returning flow! When you scam them or are a part of a

--- PAGE 12 of 27 ---

larger picture that does not really have their best interests at heart, there is also a returning flow….but it 
isn’t good! 
     Dr. Wise would go on to tell me how things really were and that the public had no idea of it. He knew 
people who knew TRUTH, not about markets but about what we will call, the real world.  He also started 
explaining his theory on quantum physics over dinner. I had no idea what the guy was talking about, I 
am not that smart.  
     Then he really blew me away. He took me home to meet his family and we went up in the attic. There 
were rows and rows of boxes, stacked 6 feet high (2 meters) and 9 feet long. These boxes were filled 
with ancient manuscripts and scrolls. I was stunned. Never one to be over staged I showed him a cycle 
that we were using. One that I called the “old type” now because there are better cycles.  He was 
floored. The only problem I had with that type of cycle was that I never could get the inversions 100% 
squared away. Gann supplies a better type of cycle with an accurate inversion solution in his Tunnel 
book. 
     As my time with the Dr. was coming to a close I invited him, free of charge, to my next seminar which 
would be held on the East Coast. He said he would be there. 
     The Dr. had devoted much of his life to studying Gann and because he had also developed good 
energy by helping people, natural law HAD to repay him in kind. He said he had been searching for years 
on how to get the natal of a stock using the data and when he saw my method he “wept tears of joy.” 
Which made me very happy to be helping someone who had helped so many.  
     Around that time my Tunnel studies had been bearing more fruit. I began understanding that Gann’s 
cycles are coded in Days in that book, although there are a few yearly references.  
     Unbeknown to me at the time, my personal success cycles, were on the upswing for the next few 
years. One would turn down in 2009 for a few years which would make my personal trend sideways for 
a while, but that was still off in the distance. More good things were to come into my life.  
     A couple years before I had started to study numerology. And as anyone who has studied such can 
attest there are all these different systems for different languages. The reason is that each language has 
its own resonant frequency and so a different interpretation or Kabala. I speak English so I need the 
English system, where A=1, B=2, C=3, D=4, E=5, F=6, G=7, H=8, I=9, J=1, K=2…..Z=8. If English is your 
native tongue, this is the system to use. Numbers govern vibration! But back in these days around my 
36-37th year of life it would be a couple years before I knew how to use it. I am sure we will revisit 
numbers soon in this work.  
     My East Coast Seminar went off without a hitch, everyone loved it and we all learned much. Dr. Wise 
showed up and people came running up to me saying “Do you know who you have here, this Doctor is 
world famous.” I smiled and nodded my head. There was an “electricity” in that get together that was 
just incredible, so much so I got a little teary eyed when it ended. I also was given a cycle prototype, 
when it was over, from a mentor. That would transform my life because this type of cycle had an 
inversion solution that was close to 100%, meaning you could gauge when it was going to invert in the 
future. (Gann himself would miss 1-2 inversions a year BUT you know exactly where the tricky ones are, 
you simply avoid them in trading!) In this regard I would say to study the Demon of Death very carefully

--- PAGE 13 of 27 ---

in Tunnel. Gann actually writes a lot on inversions in Tunnel, going to great lengths to deal with them, 
but like so many other things its really useless without the cycle.  
     In being completely honest it took me a couple of years to master the radium ray.  
     Tunnel, which we will be dealing with more in depth, is written in layers like an onion. It takes a while 
to peel back the layers one layer leading to another. Gann knew that originally people would study his 
works for trading purposes; to procure more money. What most people do not understand is that while 
you are studying the book, trying to improve your trading you pick up knowledge. Then, as you 
accumulate more of this knowledge you realize, at some point its far more valuable than dollars! 
     Here is a small example; we all went to history class in some sort of “school”. But nowhere in there 
was Atlantis mentioned. Many “scholars” believe it was a myth. The “researchers” know better. The 
difference is the researchers have rejected the schooling and have spent many hours researching it. 
Gann wrote in Tunnel that the wonderful inventions the Atlantians had are due to repeat. He states this 
on page 76, which is an important page number. People have all sorts of opinions and their opinions 
directly affect their lives.  
     The truth is like so many other things far different that we were taught. Get the book “The Lost 
Continent of MU” by Col. James Churchward, for a start. 
     Although it would not be the last time I saw him, Dr. Wise disappeared without a trace. The office, 
the pharmacy everything was gone in a flash. 
 
PHASE 5: MELTDOWN 
 
     My friends had known in 2006 that a market meltdown was coming in the fall of 2008. Earlier in that 
year I was over in Australia and I leaned over to a guy that was talking about long term predictions and I 
said “I got one for you, watch what happens in late summer/early fall this year.” Then I cracked a grin. 
     The warning signs had begun to form in early 2008 with the collapse of Bear Stearns, I recall that day 
very well, I walked downstairs at a hotel I was staying at and was having breakfast with a money 
manager. He was reading the newspaper sipping his coffee and showed me the story. I knew at a glance 
this was the first domino of a cycle that was due in the fall. The cycle that was timing this was not of 
planetary origin, although the planetary cycles timed the points. That’s how Gann’s systems on time 
work, they complement each other. One generally starts out using solely the planetary systems then 
moves on to Gann’s other systems. Some attempt to skip the planetary systems but I can honestly say I 
do not know of anyone who is a success and has skipped the planetary systems. Two of Gann’s three 
price systems he describes in Tunnel are IMPOSSIBLE to operate without the planets. One needs to 
know how to square out price with the planets. Study the “Tunnel Machines” especially in Detroit.  
     Over the Spring I continued to watch the entire saga unfold and at some point, I can’t remember, I 
pulled my parents out of stock funds and put them in bond funds. This proved to be a fantastic move, 
which really helped their retirement funds. The market continued to weaken throughout the late Spring

--- PAGE 14 of 27 ---

and early Summer. You can usually gauge this by running an “accumulation, distribution” line on the 
DOW, or any of the major indexes. Money was clearly being withdrawn even before the collapse.  
     Around this time, and knowing what was coming, my friends and I began acquiring physical silver and 
other metals. We would sell out at the top in 2011, but that was still years away. ALL of Gann’s cycles 
are based on past repeats. Like here is a simple numerical connection with the War of Independence in 
1776, Civil War 1860’s, World War II 1940’s and the next repeat in the 2020’s here in America.  Again, 
ALL of Gann’s Cycles work off of repeats of the past, no exceptions, Ecclesiastics 1:9. 
     Two gentleman had asked me for private tutoring. I agreed to meet with them both over the course 
of a weekend, for some Gann Training. Both men were at the table with me at the same time, receiving 
the exact same training, meaning they were taught the identical same thing. One of them took the 
system, retired, making a 6 figure income from trading. The other could not get it to work. My attention 
began to shift to the one that was unsuccessful. He flew back in for additional training, appearing 
“spaced” and unfocused. When he left I did several follow up phone calls with him to no avail. Finally, 
the woman he was living with said “He does not want to take your call.” I had been providing the 
additional training at no additional cost. I was, at the time, confused. How could one succeed and not 
the other? I mean if both failed the fault would have been with the system, but that was clearly not the 
case here.  
     I was, at the time, unsure of the cause but knew one thing for certain, I did not want to feel like this 
ever again. It would be a couple of years until I would understand the reason; why one person can 
succeed and another can’t. So for the time being I started to turn people away from any real help in the 
Gann field. 
     That same year I had also bumped into a character we will call “Insane Wayne”. This guy appeared to 
be a true seeker, he had the drive and eventually came into some genuine Gann information not written 
by me but from someone who truly knew. Paradoxically Insane Wayne seemed to be able to find 
information that proved the correct information he had was bogus! I was stunned. I told him it was 
correct but he was insistent that it was not. He had managed to disprove truth, at least in his own mind! 
The very last I heard of Insane Wayne was that he had bought international plane tickets for himself and 
his family which were non-refundable and showed up at the airport in the nick of time to catch the 
airplane, without their passports! Indeed, Insane Wayne was vibrating to failure! More on this later.   
     I had been trading U.S. Steel Options and managed to catch a “huge chunk” of the down move.  
     I knew the point that the fireworks would start, it was when the DOW hit a certain price from the line 
coming down from the top. It got within 40 points of it, turned and shot down 777 points. What we had 
been waiting for was here! Most people I knew were loaded up in PUT options which were doubling or 
tripling on a daily basis. I recall sitting down in a chair, turning on the TV, it was a Friday and I almost 
never buy options on a Friday. I saw the DOW was up 287 points, I mean after all these years I still 
remember the exact amount. I thought to myself “that is too fucking high”, that was my exact thought. I 
ran in and bought more U.S. Steel Puts cause the cycle low was not due until about the 8th. After I 
bought those Puts 95% of my trading account was in U.S. Steel Put Options. I no more that got the trade 
confirmation went back in to sit down and noticed the DOW had turned negative! That Monday those 
options more than tripled. I am looking at this huge percentage gain and decided to sell out everything

--- PAGE 15 of 27 ---

before Mondays close. The low came in on Friday so I did miss a bit of the last of it, but hey, I did not 
complain. I continued to trade well until the following April.  
 
PHASE 6:   SHOCK POINTS 
  
     The human body is designed to live to be slightly over 120 years. Therefore, the shock points of FA 
and LA occur at slightly over 40 and 80 years of age.  
     There are certain points in your natal chart that when they get hit by transiting planets will 
consistently produce losses. One of these points was getting hit in my chart by a very slow moving 
planet. My last options trade was in April following the 2008 melt down. The trade was in SLV and I 
knew it was going down.. I jumped on to place the trade and my wife burst into the room, somehow I 
paid 4 times the market for the options. Next error in that trade was that SLV double dipped, my friend 
got out on the first dip with sweet profits and I held on for the second dip. What would have been a 
good trade wound up to be a scratch. The options weren’t worth as much on the second dip. I realized 
that my personal trend had changed so I closed the trade and did not trade options for the next 2 years. 
There was just too much going on in my personal life.  
     My numerology studies had begun to bear fruit. 
     There are 2 master numbers that each individual has. One is their “inner birth number” which is the 
day of birth. Like if you were born May 6 1961, the 6th is your inner birth number. The other critical 
number is your name number. You add up your name. Like if your name is John. J=1, O=6, H=8, and  
N=5. Adding those numbers together you get 20. You use the name that people call you. Like if your 
birth name is Michael and everyone calls you Mike. You are vibrating to Mike, so you would use that. I 
had added these up and noted that my birth number, a beautiful number was NOT in harmony with my 
name. So I changed my name. My old name was of the nature so as it would attract people such as 
Insane Wayne into my life. The new name would create a harmony allowing me to live a much fuller, 
richer life. The Bible is filled with name changes and in some cultures today when someone is sick they 
change their name, which alters their vibration. Warning!! Do not change your name unless you know of 
all the ramifications of doing so, after years of study.  
     My old name had attracted many inharmonious people into my life. It’s not that they were bad its 
just that for the most part they did not see things the way I did. According to the rules of a name change 
it takes about 3-4 months for the vibration to switch over and you begin getting the new affect.  
     Remember that “shock point” I said hits you around age 40 or slightly after. Well even mainstream 
knows about it, not the cause but the affect, known as mid-life crisis!! Sometimes things get worse 
before they get better What I had actually done is switched from and inharmonious name to a 
harmonizing name. Many people would need to leave my life in order for harmony to come into it. All of 
a sudden I was the “bad guy”. Just like Frank Sinatra, when he was going through those years, no one 
wanted to have anything to do with me. Friends were few and far between.  
     My wife began acting strangely and I needed help in this area. A friend, one of the few I had at the 
time told me he was going to buy me a “manifestation” which is something I did not really believe in at

--- PAGE 16 of 27 ---

the time. I got an email saying that the manifestation had been completed (whatever that meant). The 
next day Dr. Wise called saying he had been meditating and felt the urge to call me. He had disappeared 
2 years prior. He was familiar with what was going on with my wife. Saying if I followed his instructions, 
exactly, that she would be cured. He then ordered me out of the environment. I will tell you, leaving a 
family is one of the hardest things one can ever do in their life. I slipped out in October under doctors’ 
orders and did not return until the end of January. The plans were to stop off and see one of the few 
friends I had at the time, then off to a resort for an, as yet, undetermined time. My friend had a guest 
room and bathroom in one wing of the house so he insisted I stay with him and his family, which to this 
day I am very grateful for. I passed my time by helping my friend and his family on many levels. I wanted 
to leave them all “better off” then when I came. He went from “heavy losses” to an accuracy he later 
told me was “just below 100%” a couple of years later. One of his major problems was putting trades on 
that were over 10% of his trading account. An individual has a “vibrational trading range” and breaking 
that range often leads to losses. I was just talking with a guy, 2 months ago, that could make consistent 
profits by putting about 3,000 into a trade, but when he would put 6,000 into a trade he would lose. This 
is because the 6000 is outside his frequency range. Instead of jumping from 3 to 6, he could go from 3 to 
3.5, SLOWLY, increasing his range. Think about it. If you are making say 100K per year you could 
probably get by asking your boss for a 5k raise. But if you asked for an additional 100K, doubling your 
income, your boss is going to find it “humorous” at best.  It’s too far outside your vibration. Now you 
could, over time, work your way up to 200K, but to jump up to it isn’t going to happen.  All vibration is 
governed by very specific laws.  
     Gann would never trade more than 10% of his account. My friend at the time had trades in excess of 
30% and we put a stop to that! He began to “micro-trade” putting only 2-3% of his account in a trade 
and slowly increasing that amount over many trades. IMHO you don’t want to be at 10% until a couple 
hundred trades have been taken.  
     I got the call to return home at the end of January with the goal of getting the wife out to Dr. Wise in 
Boston area. 
     Cycle wise, even though I was under the mid-life crisis cycles, one of the personal success cycles had 
topped the year before and was pointing down for a few years, one of my other personal success cycles 
was still on the upswing, so this would create a sideways trend for me with a downward bias. Being into 
Astro like Gann was, I knew I just had to hang in there and ride the storm out.  
     Getting the whole family out to the Boston area was a logistical nightmare but I pulled it off. At a time 
when friends were scarce there was my good friend Dr. Wise! Now of course you are wondering what 
happened to him in those 2 years. The story he told me read like a blockbuster movie script, so much so 
that I cannot share it here except to say, even if you are a doctor with a license you can’t go around 
curing cancer. Dr. Leonard Coldwell who practiced in Germany has an audited success rate curing Cancer 
patients of over 92% across 30,000 terminal patients. In America the success rate of chemo, radiation 
and surgery is 3%! Let me ask you dear reader, would you trade a 3% system? Coldwell has been shot at 
(has the bullet holds to prove it) and has had his car blown up. Generally, you don’t see that type of 
behavior in an automobile.  
     Dr. Wise invited me to watch as he dealt with my wife. I won’t write the particulars here as some 
readers aren’t ready for it. What happened I did not believe in originally until I saw it myself. That day in 
that room with my wife, myself, Dr. Wise and his assistant, my life changed. This would lead me down a

--- PAGE 17 of 27 ---

great road full of more understanding in a hidden area of life. Here I am, years later, writing this with my 
beautiful wife at my side so grateful, so thankful for the experience! 
     When it was over I got to ask Dr. Wise all the questions I wish I had two years before. One that 
shocked me the most is I told him I was always out in the Sun and was worried about “melanoma.” He 
said “Oh that’s nothing I got some salve you put that on and it will clear right up.” I said “No, I mean that 
deadly melanoma that is killing people.” He responded “Yes, I know, a little dab will due you.” I was 
shocked and looked at his assistant who was nodding her head Yes. Then Dr. Wise responded “That is 
the easiest of all the cancers to treat, because you can see it.”  
     Dr. Wise gave me further instructions and had to go away again. It would be the last time I would 
ever see him! 
     Meanwhile great progress was being made on the Gann front. More and more of the inventions in 
Tunnel were making sense. I am a trader, who loves trading and due to personal cycles I knew I could 
not at this time so I threw myself into research. Which proved to be not only a pleasant distraction but a 
wise decision. We have talked about Tunnel, written in layers, and it can take a bit of time to reach 
those layers. Tunnel is a book of connections. Gann can put one part of the system in the beginning and 
the rest of it at the end of the book. Some feel they are going after 1 secret like, A squared + B squared = 
C squared, then you can go make a million dollars. Gann is a series of secrets, each one leading to the 
next one, that must be mastered. In other words, a succession of secrets, if you will.  
     For the most part I would read Tunnel, check my notebook then go think about it. I had worked out 
several parts of it this way, while other parts would just come to me. I recall one discovery that I woke 
up with, emailed myself the solution and went back to bed! 
 
PHASE 7: THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR 
 
   This book, Tunnel, is by far the best book ever written on financial markets and one of the main goals 
of the work you are currently reading is to help you decode it in order that you can make a success in 
your trading.  
     Here is what I believe is a golden path that others have used to make a success. W.D. Gann, George 
Bayer and Luther Jensen could all forecast the markets with a high degree of accuracy. This then 
becomes the goal of the seeker. 
      In order to accurately forecast one must have a cycle. Some people believe that the cycles consist of 
things like declination, apogee, latitude, planetary speed, etc. but that is not what the TIME cycles 
consist of. Specifically, what you are looking for is a High Low High Low sequence with about 10-15% 
inversions. In all my testing apogee etc. does not provide the High Low Sequence that is so critical to a 
Gann Trader.  
     Gann’s Time Cycles have lengths, which are governed by certain measurements. They work a certain 
way and there is definitely a rhythm. You have to get at least one of his time cycles working to be able to 
forecast Highs and Lows, like Gann, Bayer, and Jensen. This is step one! Things like inversions, price etc.

--- PAGE 18 of 27 ---

are absolutely meaningless without the TIME CYCLES! Geometry? Don’t touch it! Gann’s true systems 
are less than 10% geometry and that will only work with the very advanced parts of the system. 
     This begs the question then, where does one find the length of repeats of these cycles? Enter the 
book Tunnel. Gann put all the major cycles in this book for YOU to find. He did this in order to help those 
that truly seek to improve their lives with knowledge. By doing so he accumulates good will which is far 
more important than money, and as he states in the forward “shall have my reward” (more on this 
natural law will be provided to the reader in this work so that they do not sabotage themselves). 
     Getting back to Tunnel, it’s a book of connections. It’s a puzzle and you are going to need to assemble 
the pieces to make a success. This will take you YEARS through a sustained effort. The good news is that 
this effort will lead you to TRUTH which will alter your life FAR FAR more than money. IMHO of all the 
things to do in the work, there is nothing more noble than to seek truth! 
     Go to the store and acquire a spiral notebook with at least 150 sheets. Write on it “Tunnel Master.” 
Originally I had a couple of 3 foot by 2 foot white boards, which I bought at an office supply store many 
years ago. Then a couple of trader friends showed up with white sheets that cling to the walls. “National 
Brand Write On” sells 35 sheets of this on Amazon for about 22 dollars currently. I switched over to 
these “dry erase” as they provided a lot more room. These dry erase sheets will come in handy for 
making the connection that will later go into the “Tunnel Master” notebook.  
     Starting out with the notebook, take every invention and write down what is said about it and also 
the page numbers it is mentioned on.  
     One invention is “Marie the Angel of Mercy” which we call MAM for short. So at the top of the 
notebook page we would write MAM then go through Tunnel first writing the page number (page 234) 
and what was said about it (work was started on the new machine with all secrecy, it had already been 
christened “Marie the Angel of Mercy”). Next you want to find and isolate a DATE for the event. Page 
233 has “Fall of 1928” then page 234 has early September 1928. So the actual date must be presumed 
to be early September 1928, and because Gann did not specifically provide us with a date, we can 
assume this to be important because Gann made us work for it. Think like this! “How would Gann hide 
his time cycles which all have a length of time to repeat?” 
     We then would go looking for the next time “Marie the Angel of Mercy” is listed. Once we find it we 
write down the page number, what is said, and the date or at least as close as we can get to the date 
using what Gann gives us. This process is repeated until all the times MAM is mentioned are put into our 
notebook in the above manner.  
     Once this process is complete on MAM we can go and do our unofficial configuring on our white 
board sheets. Playing around with dates, putting together, comparing and looking at the distance the 
planets moved, number of DAYS between mentioning etc. 
     Yes, dear reader, this is the road that leads one to success. 
      The inventions are all important, even the seemingly smaller ones like the “Pocket Radio” or “Silent 
Muffler.” 
     The next phase, after all the inventions is the keywords, which are slightly less obvious at times but 
can be just as important. Here is a small sampling; supreme, bicycle, level, ray and Sunday. You want to

--- PAGE 19 of 27 ---

process these like inventions, writing down the page number, how the word was used and the date (if 
any) as not all will have dates and that is ok. As a final step also count the number of times it is used in 
the book, keywords are often repeated X number of times which will have a specific meaning. An 
example is Charity which appears 5 times in the book. This tells me it ties into a particular advanced 
concept where the number 5 is important, specifically where Robert Gordon was born.       
     This type of analysis can lead to success at finding the cycles, for Gann not only gives you the cycles 
but the Planets that are involved. If an airplane does not have a pilot (aviator) it is of the nature of cycles 
that do not use the planets. It’s a higher level system. 
     The longitude and latitude for every city mentioned should be obtained by the seeker.  
     RULE; There is little, if any, “filler” in this book. If a city is mentioned its important. If a date is 
mentioned its important. NO EXCEPTIONS! 
     Poor Robert Gordon “cotton head” starts out being teased by his brother, then works his way up to 
“Supreme Commander.” At different phases of his life, depending on what he is called, he is different 
things! So are the other characters. 
     Each name that is mentioned in the book is important. Both Gann and Jensen mention Descartes, 
with Gann cloaking him in the book. 
     Pythagoras is mentioned saying something weird about women on page 191 “there are in a woman’s 
eyes two sorts of tears, one of grief the other of deceit.” Pythagoras was a mathematician so the line is 
suspect. Decoded it means “two sorts of tears, one”. This 2:1 ratio is the Octave, so he is saying study 
Pythagoras and Octaves! 
     When I found, what I thought was a cycle, never did I ask someone “Is this a cycle, figuring if I asked 
that I had no real knowledge of it.” If you do not know if you have a cycle or not, you probably don’t. 
The way to find out is easy. Your cycle will go H, L, H, L etc. with an occasional inversion (about 10% of 
the time). If you have a cycle that inverts 40% of the time you have coincidence. Remember the master 
key; you MUST have an accurate TIME cycle first, before ANY other thing will work! The time cycle must 
have come from Tunnel, to be one of Gann’s TRUE cycles. Once you find them expect your life to begin 
to change! Gann’s cycles will allow you to forecast and that is step one. 
     Gann will emphasize certain parts in the book with Capitals, and the use of words like great or 
gigantic, these relate to critical areas. 
     This work was started on Robert Gordon’s 110th birthday. Certain things act as “hubs” in the book 
such as the 110 story building which is used in no less than 3 different calculations in the book! Another 
hub or tie in is the GIGANTIC attack on New York City.  
     Tunnel was written at a specific resonant frequency. When one matches that frequency the book 
literally coughs up her secrets! Although ever so slowly in the beginning, becoming faster and faster.

--- PAGE 20 of 27 ---

PHASE 8: THE REAL KEY TO YOUR SUCCESS!   
 
    Many people come into the Gann field because they want to make a lot of money and they figure 
Gann will help them succeed. The real key is if the individual wants things in their life to change they 
have to change. 
     Everything in this universe has a specific resonant frequency. Even a rock sitting in the same place for 
tens of thousands of years has a specific measurable frequency.   
     Human beings also have a specific measurable frequency. Get the book “Power Us Force”, by David R. 
Hawkins. That book is a MUST HAVE book as it proves that TRUTH has a very high vibration! 
     The Golden Rule is Like attracts Like; the Law of Attraction, so TRUTH attracts more truth. It is Law. 
TRUTH is also very high vibration (see Power Vs. Force) and Gann wrote the Truth in Tunnel. I assure you 
dear reader the book contains TRUTH! 
     Now I need to give you an example in contrast. Let’s say someone offered you a million dollars, as an 
experiment, to live in a crack house for a month. You accept the challenge even though you have no 
intention of smoking crack. I doubt you would be able to make it a week. Because you and the crack 
smokers are all in a state of vibration, being around the negativity, the hopelessness, the confusion 
would begin to drag down your own vibration! Even though you have no thoughts of smoking crack you 
would begin to feel your own vibration spiraling down, getting lower and lower as time marches on. This 
downward spiral would begin affecting your first mentally, then physically. What is occurring here is the 
same as walking into a piano store, striking a key on a stringed piano and having the other pianos sound 
off. Science calls this “phenomena” sympathetic resonance.  
    Now most of us won’t need to experiment with a crack house, but similarly our vibrations are 
impacted by many factors each day. An all-inclusive list would fill up many pages but the main ones are: 
1) your thoughts, 2) the food you eat, 3) the amount of nutrients you acquire, 4) the people you 
surround yourself with, 5) the water your drink, 6) News, shows, music. 
     Your thoughts are by far the most critical element of all of these. You must train your thoughts to be 
positive. This can take some time. Napoleon Hills book “Think and Grow Rich” along with his audio “The 
Science of Personal Achievement” can come in handy. Also I think a study of the Law of Attraction helps.  
      When it comes to the foods you eat, volumes could be written. Essentially there are 3 main 
elements; Vitamins, Minerals and Enzymes. As stated earlier out life span should be around 120 years. 
When we cook our food about 116 degrees we cook out the enzymes. Therefore, eating a good portion 
of raw foods is helpful to our systems. Eating an all Organic diet is not enough as much of the food was 
grown on nutrients different soils with the vitamins and minerals long gone out of the soil. GMO MUST 
be avoided at all costs, reference Dr. Joseph Mercola. Microwave ovens, while convenient alter the 
energy structure of the food making it low vibration! 
     Personally I have an orchard where the fruit trees and vegetables are sprayed with Dr. Mercola’s Sea 
Minerals. Once a fruit or vegetable is picked its energy (vibration) begins to diminish. I know it sounds 
crazy but it is a scientific fact. Study Kirlian Photography in relation to fruits and vegetables. A head of 
lettuce loses 50% of its nutrients shortly after being picked! So the stuff in the store is devoid of any

--- PAGE 21 of 27 ---

nutrients, even if its “fresh” and unprocessed. Take your food VERY seriously. Study the works of Markus 
Rothkranz and on You Tube “life regenerator” or anyone else you find that talks about “vibration” and 
food. Freshly grown, pesticide free, raw food is of the highest vibration, even higher if minerals have 
been added into the growing cycle. Although it is a road of its own, that will find its almost impossible to 
raise your vibration while eating low vibrational food. So seek to spend more eating of more nutritional 
food.  
     In my early 20’s I owned a couple of pet shops. There were snakes in there and they ate mice and 
rats. So in order to bypass the middle man we started breeding mice and rats on our own. Strangely they 
would have a litter of 1 or 2. After many months of this I was at the feed store and the owner told me 
the reason they were not very prolific was because the feed I was using, while cheap, did not contain 
enough vitamins & minerals. I was paying 16 dollars a bag and he suggested I use the 50-dollar bag. I 
bought a bag and also some liquid vitamin/minerals. Within a month they were producing 20-22 per 
litter!  Before long we had more than we needed and our competition, when running short, would buy 
from us! I call this the “lesson of the rat” and never forgot it! 
     A few years ago a friend of mine from India stated “There is not cure for diabetes.” All of the cures for 
these “incurable” diseases are already here. You just need to research them out. Diabetes is simple to 
cure in 2-14 days. Study the work of Dr. Joel Wallach.  
     Cancer? Where do I start. There are many cures already here for this but you have to research. 
Oxygen is BIG but there is an even better cure all. I do not do drugs; the last time I drank alcohol was 2 
glasses of wine before Christmas over 4 years ago. If I had Cancer I would do what works! Get the book 
“Phoenix Tears” by Rick Simpson. I am not a doctor and hold no licenses in anything, I am a researcher 
who seeks out truth! Remember our axiom: Truth attracts more truth. Spend your time seeking out 
truth. Learn to judge low vibrational writing from high vibrational truth.  
     When it comes to water the ideal is Spring Water that has NEVER touched plastic. Putting this water 
into a cold refrigerator increases the structure and therefore the vibration of the Spring Water. 
Fluoride? Just say NO! Avoid that stuff. All chemicals are low vibration, NO exceptions! 
     If you came to my house and I grilled outside some food for everyone, then I brought yours inside and 
sprinkled a white powdery chemical all over it, which I got from a 50-gallon barrel, what would you 
think? Would you eat it? Probably not. What if you asked me, “will that white chemical hurt me” and I 
responded “the guy that sold it to me paid for a study that found it was safe”. What would you think? 
And yet most do every day; trusting chemical companies that have profit motives. We are all on our own 
paths for sure, my goal in writing this is to help you by giving you information I feel is accurate, correct 
and well researched in order to make your path easier.  
   There are 3 things that work in tandem; the mental, physical and spiritual. For me, my spiritual bank 
account is every bit as important as my physical bank account.  
     Let’s say I invited you to my house, and when you arrived I challenged you to a game of football or 
soccer and you accepted. We go outside and I write all the rules down on a sheet of paper and put it in 
my pocket. As the game starts, you broke a rule, so I stopped the game to inform you that you cannot 
do that as it’s against the rules that I have in my pocket. Who will win that game? So in any game it’s 
important to know the rules (LAWS) in order to win that game. Wouldn’t you consider life the biggest

--- PAGE 22 of 27 ---

game of all? We have already learned through PA that people making tens of millions a year are no 
happier than someone making 150,000 a year. So if it’s not money that makes us happy, what is it? For 
each of us it’s a different answer. Knowing the rules (LAWS) helps you live better lives which are more 
fulfilling because we will be in harmony with these laws. Money can be a faithful servant but it can also 
be a tyrannical master depending on how well we know the rules (LAWS).  
     I define wealth as Knowledge, Happiness and Money. I know people who make a lot of dollars but in 
no way would I consider them wealthy according to my definition.  
     This part is being written from Panama City Beach, a far more crowded beach than Jekyll Island was 
but much whiter sand.  Almost a pristine white which is why it’s called the “Emerald Coast”. 
     You see there is a returning flow. If you give out and freely help others you yourself will receive help 
when you need it. I mean, do you recall that time I told you that I woke up in the middle of the night and 
emailed myself the solution, then went back to bed. Where did that really come from? Why did Gann 
really write Tunnel, I mean he certainly did not need the money? Why is the work you are currently 
reading absolutely free? 
     Those familiar with Emerson’s Essay on the Law of Compensation, often referred to by Napoleon Hill 
will understand. For the newcomers may I suggest “The Celestine Prophecy” by James Redfield.  
     I was asked yesterday if I had always been charitable, or if this was something I had recently started. 
The answer is that even at a very young age I would seek ways to help others. Later, when I got older 
and became aware of the LAWS that govern this Universe I accelerated my efforts. Later on people 
would come into my life and help me, in ways I once thought were impossible! 
     So let’s say we find what we believe is a cycle. Let’s say (as an Example Only) that we notice that two 
dates in Tunnel are 2060 days apart which is close to 3 Helio Mars revolutions, what do we do now? 
How can we test this? Gann’s Cycles of Repetition do not have a starting point. They are based on repeat 
of time or length of X. Here, in this example, we believe its 3 revolutions of Mars. 3 X360 = 1080. So we 
would set up a repeating spreadsheet of Mars 1080’s. Meaning when Mars travels 1080 degrees, then 
goes to 1081 degrees we would start a new column that runs from 1081 to 2160, the next column would 
run from 22161 to 3240 etc. etc. 
     Different Instruments will respond to different cycles. Like say the DOW will respond to a particular 
cycle, but not the others. So we will have to test this Mars 1080 on different stocks etc. to see if they 
respond to it. This is what is going on; If the spreadsheet is set up correctly there will be turn repeats 
(vibrational repeats) when Mars hits certain degrees across your sheet. Like say Mars hits 21 degrees 
and you notice a High in one column, then 21 degrees you notice a Low in the next column then 21 
degrees again you notice a Low in the 3rd column. That is how a vibrational repeat across time works. 
That is why the cycle is called a TIME Cycle, is because it has a length of time of X. Now going across, you 
can get anything like all Highs, 1 High and 2 Lows or whatever. The reason is the sequencing comes from 
a different way, specifically heading DOWN your column. Going down the column you should have High, 
Low, High, Low coming from your time cycle. Once this is tested out over a period of a couple of years of 
going down your columns you should have an inversion rate of around 10% and we have talked about 
this before.

--- PAGE 23 of 27 ---

Get the book “Rich Dad, Poor Dad” by Robert Klyosaki. In it note that the rich Dad worked very hard 
at donating and helping others. He was able to understand and use the natural laws. In so doing he 
never attempted to acquire something for nothing. Also, from a statistical stand point, the book by 
Thomas L. Stanley provides mechanical insight, its name is “The Millionaire Next Door.” 
     W.D. Gann died in 1955 and here we are over 60 years later studying him. Obviously the man knew 
something. Let’s take a closer look at the last paragraph of the forward from Tunnel. “ I believe this book 
will prove interesting and valuable to men and women in all walks of life. If it does, you will be thankful 
to the power that guided my hand in showing you the way to eternal truth. My object will have been 
accomplished and I will have my reward”, signed W.D. Gann. Indeed, here was a man that again, 
understood and used natural law.  
     On another note, some people have emotional blocks that sometimes are caused by some form of 
abuse or neglect during childhood. If you fit this pattern you may wish to read the book (or audio) by 
Louise L. Hay entitled “You Can Heal Your Life”. Louise is the owner of Hay House Publishing. Anything 
from Hay House will help you improve your life, and you may want to check into any books they offer on 
something called “The Law of Attraction.” You see, if you really want to win this or any other game you 
have to know the rules (LAWS). 
     I have a close friend who studies with the Tibetan Monks, disappearing for weeks at a time. He 
confirms that the vibration on this planet is rising just as the cycles say it should. Literally you can be, do 
or have anything you want. The key is to raise your personal vibrational frequency to match what you 
want, through the Law of Attraction, then it will come into your life easily and effortlessly.  
  
PHASE 9:    RETIRING FROM THE TOUR 
 
Seven years after it started I did my last gig on the world tour, I was tired and just wanted to spend time 
with my family. Now, years later, looking back I am still amazed at all the wonderful vibrant and 
enthusiastic people I met. I feel truly blessed! I was 42 years old and the tour concluded in North 
America. With my public seminar days over I wanted to focus on a few things. One is I wanted to get to 
the bottom and understand nutrition, I wanted to focus on finishing up my Tunnel decoding, I wanted to 
keep improving my trading, spend time with the family and keep the goodwill flowing by helping others. 
These things all contained my passion and still do.  
     The following year found me in Australia for about a month, visiting friends. A multi-millionaire I had 
originally heard about in 2008 invited me to lunch, which I accepted. We had lunch just South of Surfers 
Paradise at a fantastic seafood place where he knew the owner; he himself a delightful and confident 
man. We talked about many things. In conversation he offered me a million dollars a year to forecast 
one particular market for him. Without even thinking about it, I refused. Working strictly for money 
without a good will return flow is not for me, nor was it for Gann. A few years later I would again get 
offered what many would call a large amount and again I refused.  
     The following year I had a perfect trading year, which I had never had before or since. All trades were 
profitable but, in being completely honest one was a scratch as I managed to squeak out a 6-dollar

--- PAGE 24 of 27 ---

profit. Factoring in commissions I was slightly negative. Now here is the key as to why I brought this up. 
Five months of that year I did not trade. I knew if I did I would get hit with huge losses as transiting 
Saturn (restriction) was making an inharmonious aspect to its natal position within my chart. When that 
is occurring forget all about trading. I have seen real Gann Traders get torn up attempting to trade 
through those times.  
     W. D. Gann would trade in what he called “campaigns” which were periods of time that he knew 
would be rewarding. Furthermore, man has, a seasonal trend in which he will find profits are to be had 
much more readily during certain months. This varies from individual to individual and can be timed 
using the natal. W.D. Gann was not always trading. He did not need to and neither do conditioned Gann 
Traders. Specifically, for myself I always lose money in mid-February, years ago I found the cause and 
simply do not trade in it.  
    Let’s go back here a couple years from this perfect trading year and take a look at some other things 
that were going on after I quit the public seminar circuit.  
     One of my goals was my health and nutrition. Through a chance encounter, at the last seminar, I met 
a man who could measure nuero-pathways in the brain. For those unfamiliar with what this is I will give 
a brief example. Let’s say you do not know how to ride a bicycle up and down the peaks and valleys. In 
your mind there is no nuero-pathway for riding a bicycle. One day you get on a bicycle and start riding 
around, getting better and more confident as time goes by. What is occurring is that your brain creates 
and continues to build a nuero-pathway for riding your bicycle up and down the peaks and valleys. In 
order to build that pathway, the brain needs certain specific nutrients. If it does not get these nutrients 
one winds up with poorly formed or even dysfunctional nuero-pathways. The guy that I met, who is now 
past away, told me that after much experimentation that Dr. Mercola’s Krill Oil was by far the best, for 
building nuero-pathways. I immediately saw the implications this would have for the Gann researcher. 
That was also my introduction to Dr. Mercola who has the world’s #1 health site. Since then I take 2-3 a 
day.  
     In that same time frame I also found the book “Niacin”, by Abram Hoffer, so I worked my way up to 3 
grams a day and found it did wonders for my own mental clarity, greatly improving concentration when 
it came to decoding tunnel.  
     The ancients believed that the gut was the key to the intuitional doorways of the mind. How many 
times have you heard “gut feeling” or “he has a lot of guts”? When I started working with this concept, 
in ways I will soon describe, the Tunnel breakthroughs started occurring faster and more insightful, 
convincing me that the micro-biome really is the key to intuition and higher levels of thinking, also 
feeling better.  
     The first order of business was to kill off the candida albicins, which is the result of taking antibiotics. 
The procedure I followed was from the book “A Miraculous Health Substance” by Marvin Robey, and as 
the fungus (candida) began to die off I had to take sweat baths. The next step was rebuilding with pro-
biotics. What I found is pills are rather low doses, fermentation in the form of kefir or especially coconut 
water (see life regenerator on YT) was FAR more effective. What I also found is that I felt much happier-
clearer in the mind and perhaps more importantly here, things just started “jumping” out of the Tunnel 
book at me. For more information on this see the monumental work called “Gut and Psychology 
Syndrome” by Natasha Campbell-McBride.

--- PAGE 25 of 27 ---

We have touched on the point the some may have “blocks” acquired in childhood, that are, to this 
day, holding them back. A phobia could even be considered a “block”. Fear of heights, spiders, snakes, 
water, small spaces, or elevators can all be quickly and permanently gotten rid of in a matter of minutes. 
The technique is called EFT (Emotional Freedom Technique) and once again we return to Hay House 
Publishing for the book “The Tapping Solution” by Nick Ortner. This technique frees one up to live a 
happier fuller life! 
     Millionaires do not think and/or behave like the rest of the public, often having eccentricities and 
taking the time to program themselves for success. Unfortunately, Gann cannot help you as he passed 
away. The individual MUST take things into their own hands, using natural Law and programming 
themselves for success, while doing away with old habits and patterns that have not produced success. 
Gann wanted it to take 10 years of effort before any real results are obtained. If you have been in this 
field 10-15 or more years and cannot yet forecast, you have a vibrational problem. Believe it or not this 
is very common. There is something holding you back, it could be in the form of a blockage from way 
back or a violation of natural law (like you have been trying to get information out of others without 
giving anything, a direct violation (which natural law will penalize you for) or perhaps you just don’t 
really see yourself successful. Remember the two fellows who sat down and one made a success and the 
other did not? Had both failed I would have been to blame. It would be a couple of years after the 
incident that I was told exactly what happened. The man that succeeded was vibrating to success, the 
man that failed was vibrating to failure. The man who succeeded knew that it was really up to him to 
succeed. The man who failed was looking for others to make him successful which is, in fact, impossible! 
In my almost 18 years of helping people I think that most do not understand that they need to study 
how to succeed, adopting a philosophy and outlook that serves them in acquiring any goal they have. 
Gann is dead, studying Gann will not make you successful and I think many have found this out the hard 
way. You must learn how to be successful. Then you will start to better understand Gann.  
     Let’s say you have studied success and some of the books referenced here. You have found a cycle or 
two and are wondering, What’s the next step?  
 
PHASE 10:  FINDING TRUTH 
 
     Some will seek to understand how W.D. Gann’s price systems work with the cycles, and if you have 
one of Gann’s time cycles this is certainly a valuable study. I would suggest studying the Cotton 
Campaign and The Tunnel machines.  
     Another avenue that will probably appeal to some after finding their first cycle is to understand W.D. 
Gann’s inversion solution. The Gann Traders I know for the most part believe that inversions will take a 
little longer to understand than price. I will tell you dear reader, in this regard, I feel strongly that the 
letter that Robert believed Marie dropped in Paris must first be interpreted before a success can be had 
with inversions. The true cause of inversions is a cycle that adds in extra pivots, from time to time, to the 
main cycle. Inversions are nature’s way of keeping all the cycles in sync.

--- PAGE 26 of 27 ---

In my almost 18 years of helping people I have come to the conclusion that the absolute most 
important determining factor to your success is your own personal vibration, indeed, the most critical 
factor! 
     When one reads traditional history of this planet it is a sad narration of wars and absurd misery. This 
is in part due to a low vibration that the planet had been vibrating to, which I cannot get into the causes 
of here and now, due to space limitations. (see the must read “Power vs Force” previously 
recommended). The uplifting vibrations currently hitting the planet will continue. You have felt these 
but possibly did not know what was occurring.  
     Have you felt recently that there just is not enough hours in the day? Have you felt that time seems 
to go by faster? Well you are not alone! These feelings are a direct result of the higher vibrations that 
have been hitting the entire Solar System. Be aware of people outside the Gann field who talk about 
vibrations, or personal vibration, like Markus Rothkranz and the life regenerator on YT, they may seem 
“odd” to you at first but they are “in the know”, as are many others. 
     It has been said that truth is stranger than fiction. Truth has a different vibration to it than non-truth. 
Non-truth is very low vibration whereas truth is extremely high vibration, you must learn to tell the 
difference. Take a few moments and try to distinguish the difference. Note that nay sayers and those 
that oppose are Low vibrational. Truth never opposes. 
     The Law of Attraction is based off like attracting like. If you fear something it’s on its way! Because 
truth attracts truth, the more truth you know, the more truth you speak, the more REAL truth comes to 
you….it is LAW. Telling anything that is un-truth has the result of lowering the vibration of the individual.  
     Years ago, before I became fully aware of personal vibration I met a woman we will call Crazy Connie, 
who was, in short a con artist. Later I would be warned of such and take action to distance myself. 
Planetary Cycles can temporarily lower your vibration and while under such I met Crazy Connie. To the 
day, when the cycle was over, Crazy Connie got out of my life. As stated she was a bit of a con artist and 
had been for a number of years. Even though she was older than forty her parents continued to bail her 
out of any trouble she got into. She told me she had had 16 medical surgeries and currently had a kidney 
stone which she was hospitalized for, I later verified this. What we have here dear reader is natural law. 
Crazy Connie was indeed a con artist but by far the target of her sinister doings was herself. Because she 
was unaware of natural law she was only stealing from herself! Yes, indeed, in looking back Crazy Connie 
was her own worse victim! 
     This universe demands payment for everything. No exceptions! Yesterday while eating breakfast I got 
into a discussion with a couple waitresses. One said she just got “stiffed” by two tables she had waited 
on. This occurred in America where the standard tipping rate is 15% and the waitresses depend on the 
tip! Let’s examine what really occurred here in terms of natural law. The two groups of people who did 
not leave a tip got the service of the waitress for nothing. I would estimate her services were worth 5-10 
dollars. Those people figured they were saving money, being frugal or whatever. A sum of 50 to 100 
dollars will be extracted from them, for this, at a later date. The waitress who got “stiffed” either did 
something in the past to where she got something for nothing and it was being extracted, maybe even 
in an ongoing basis or if this was not the case the universe will pay her 50 to 100 dollars at a later date 
to square it. A true millionaire knows that revenge of any kind is a suckers’ game, because of natural

--- PAGE 27 of 27 ---

law. Contrast what the people did who stiffed the waitress to how the millionaire in “Rich Dad, Poor 
Dad” would have behaved, or how the millionaire in “The Instant Millionaire” would have behaved.  
     In looking back over my almost 18 years of helping people in this field I feel strongly that one’s ability 
to truly research is an important element. Back in the 1980’s a movie came out called “Indiana Jones 
and the Raiders of the Lost Ark”. In it Dr. Jones goes after all these relics, through thick and thin. Dr. 
Jones had a lot of “drive” for these relics. Picture yourself as Dr. Jones (re-watch the movie if you need 
to) and instead of going after relics, see yourself going after knowledge! Dr. Jones always seemed to 
come out ahead because he had better knowledge and a higher vibration! Get it! 
     Well, I leave the beach next week so I want to go enjoy it on a more personal level. I sacrificed much 
of my personal beach time to help you on your path. This work will be distributed for free once I return 
and the typist types it up.  
     You, dear reader, have gotten something for nothing. In order to square it, you should give to your 
favorite charity, or do a random act of kindness for someone else. This author will refuse any 
compensation. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
    The purpose of this writing is to instruct.  It is different than most writings you are used to and no 
effort was made to change that.  It is meant to work on multiple levels simultaneously.  It should be read 
and re-read because it contains much that this author believes in valuable.  It should be put down for a 
day, a week, a month, or a year and be re-read, as new light will dawn. 
  For some this work or writing will be an invaluable aid, which will lead to success and I will see you on 
the beaches of the world!!!

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 344593197-Walker-Myles-Wilson-Super-Timing-W-D-Ganns-Astrological-Method-pdf.pdf
Total Pages: 186
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 186 ---

[OCR] SUPER TIMING

Time Sone Ch (w)
debt. 55° 52 (N)
lena. opp 35! (€)

W.D.GANNS ASTROLOGICAL METHOD

MYLES WILSON WALKER

Super Timing -W.D.Ganns Astrological method.Copyright@Q1999 by Myles Wilson

Walker. All rights reserved.
The 1908 price target method copyright@1999 by Myles Wilson Walker. All rights

reserved.

--- PAGE 2 of 186 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 3 of 186 ---

[OCR] ; sunertimi

Table of contents:

Introduction.

W.D.Gann and Astro-The proof.

Ganns first trade on August 15th 1902.

Gann made one of his most important discoveries on August 8th 1908.
The W.D.Gann Astrological method solves the following trades.
Wheat September 30th 1909.

Cotton high 1923.

Cotton low 1953.

Cotton top in 1952 and the low in 1953.

Comparision of the Coffee low in 1953 and the high in 1954.
Coffee high 1954.

Soybean high September 14th 1941.

Soybean low October 17th 1941.

Soybeans sold November 14th 1941.

Soybean high November 23rd 1948.

Soybeans sold April 27th 1954.

Cotton high 30th November 1923.

Gann finished cotton trades and closed.

Soybeans sold April 27th 1954.

Soybeans buy/close May 5th 1954.

Soybeans sold again May 7th 1954.

W.D.Ganns scientific forecasts.

--- PAGE 4 of 186 ---

[OCR] The Morning Telegraph artical on Gann December 17th 1922.
Dow Low August 24th 1921.
Dow top August 14th 1922.
Dow top October 8-15th 1922.
Panicky decline November 10th -14th 1922.
Summary of Ganns Sequence of stock market predictions September 3rd 1929 to July 21st 1933.
Top September 3rd 1929.
Low October 3rd 1931.
Low February 10th 1932.
Low February 10th 1932.
High March 8th 1932.
Low July 8th 1932.
High September 20-21st 1932.
Low October 4-5th 1932.
Low March Ist 1933.
High July 17th 1933.
Low July 21st 1933.
The Hexagon chart.
Price and planetary activity at the same point.
The Hexagon and 1908.
Complete Coffee trades 1954.
Coffee high 1954.
Coffee buy/close April 14th 1954.
Coffee sold again April 15th 1954.

Coffee trades finish April 21th 1954.

--- PAGE 5 of 186 ---

[OCR] Jupiter Ingress.

Using the hexagon 1908 price target method with soybeans.
May beans 1989 and 1998.March soybeans 1999.

Examples of the 1908 price target method from recent markets.
Strange Clocks.

The S+P.

The complete Ticker interview.

Ganns trading strategy.

Robert Gordons great campaign in cotton.

A brief Astrology of the U.S. Stock Market 1994 to 1997.

Reference aspect lists not included in the text.

--- PAGE 6 of 186 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 7 of 186 ---

[OCR] .

ae

se

Introduction

W.D. Gann believed that the angular relationships of the planets produced both cycles
and prices and as these cycles/prices could be predicted out into the future because of
the planets perfect mathematical relationship.

At any time astrology is considered sceptically by most people so its not surprising that
Gann didn’t advertise the fact that astrology was his main forecasting tool

In this book I have taken his predictions and where ever possible complete sequences
of trades so that I could find the pattern that would reveal the secret of his method.

There are a lot of books written that claim that they know Ganns method. | think that
there are a lot of Gann like methods but I doubt if the were the ones he used. This is
why I decided to do an investigation based solely on what I could judge was factual eg
his personal charts and his public predictions and trades.

W.D. Ganns career spanned 53 years from 1902 until 1955 and during this time he
developed many techniques but when you read The Ticker interview it is obvious that
his trading technique was already developed by 1909 and so this means that we can
forget about any further methods that he used afterwards such as the master time
overlays etc.In this book we are only interested in the things we know he

used. Astrology is the beginning of everything as you will see by the analysis of his
amazing wheat prediction of 1909 and the link between his greatest discovery made on
August the 8th 1908 and the Lambert Gann emblem.

In this book you will see the same pattern revealed over and over again so there can be
no doubt that this was his method.

While you are reading it may be difficult initially if you have never looked at
astrology,not because of the concepts but because of the terminology and the planets
glyphs I have used the full name for everything instead of the shorthand where ever I
can because I want you to understand and recognise the pattern as quickly as you can.
Remember Gann often mentioned the circle (cycle) the square and the triangle soon
you will find out what he meant. :

Also the moon plays a large part in the timing of events which is one of the points that
he was making in Tunnel thru the air.

It is always hard learning a new language for the first time be it music or chart
reading. The good thing from our point of view is that we are not concerned with any
astrological symbolism only the position of the planets as viewed from earth
(geocentric) You will need to refer to the glossary at the back but we are using three
terms mainly, the trine (triangle-120 degrees conjunct meaning joined together and
square meaning at a 90 degree angle.

This * is used in place of the degree sign eg there are 360* in a circle.

--- PAGE 8 of 186 ---

[OCR] W.D.Gann and Astrology - The Proof.

To prove to you that Gann really did use the positions of the planets

I thought it would be interesting to take a look at Ganns actual price chart for May
Soybeans from the years 1948-1949 and see what techniques we could see him using
on the chart.

Top left is the astological symbol for the planet Jupiter just at the begining of a Jupiter
trendline(1) He started this trendline on the 4th of October 1948 when Jupiter was at
22 degrees Sagittarius. 22 degrees Sagittarius is also 262 degrees of the 360 degree
circle.Ganns first price marking was at 262 cents and then he started moving his
trendline up by 1 cent every time Jupiter moved by | degree.

The next interesting chart marking (2) is a line drawn along at 270 cents marking the
price/degree where Jupiter would change signs from Sagittarius to Capricorn.A planet
el ing signs of the zodiac is known as ingress and this chart snows several planets

ingress but he only mar upiters in then enus
Ss Ingress within one day of each other.He ut a little cross on the day of the Mars

crossing.

Each zodiac sign is 30 degrees of the circle. (360 degrees divided by 12 signs = 30
degrees) Gann marked 270 price for Jupiters ingress and then marked 15 cents below
this (5) as well 30 cents lower (6) all potential price targets.

Another interesting trendline is created by the movement of the planet Mars (7) Mars
moves faster than Jupiter and this is reflected in the steeper slope of the Mars trendline.
There are a few light markings that are hard to see in a reprint like this but one o
them (9) is a little arrow pointing down when the moons nodes changed to 29 degrees
of a new sign. This is like a planetary ingress because the moons nodes run counter
clockwise.

It is always fascinating to study this chart but planetary ingress was only a minor part
of Ganns techniques, more important are the actual predictions that Gann made in his
annual forecasts.

--- PAGE 9 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: 3.5PG
Dimensions: 800 x 470 pixels \1

--- PAGE 10 of 186 ---

[OCR] AstroMart 51 chart dt |

aphe Gann mode tas tret Wad

a

dO, |
{> roe dow

Ae

Name: ganns first trade chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

August 15th 1902 Gann makes his first trade.

Here are the first elements of the Gann formula.

1) A Trine.

2) A Conjunction involving the Trine.

3) Balanced aspects. That means the aspects aren’t exact but each aspect is not exact by the same
ammount.In this case the Sun is trine Uranus with a 4 * separation the Sun is also Conjunct
Mercury with a 4* separation.

Name: 4.5pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 11 of 186 ---

[OCR] + AotoMent st chat db flraphe, 08 OY 1308 ]

Sh Ele Eck Dipley  Spaphics Databove |idilies Window (2. Regetes

SAlol8| Xe) Bielol sole] «>| 7] A
08 08 1908

~ Sunday 5 Apal 1998 04:23 pan

Name: 08 O08 1908 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 803 x 600 pixels

Gann made one of his most important discoveries on August 8th 1908.

The clues Gann left are numerous but the most important are the triangle and the square.Have a
look at the emblem for the Lambert Gann publishing company and compare this with the chart for
August the 8th 1908.

This is the date that W.D.Gann says that he made one of his greatest discoveries

for predicting the trend of stocks and commodities.The similarities are obvious.

Name:

5.jpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 12 of 186 ---

[OCR] “4
Poe
?
, ,
may
hoa
‘
a8
few wre em it De
cy oe
’
i
ae
.
Goes ryt!
od :
. a

Name: 6.jpg
Dimensions: 632 x 453 pixels

--- PAGE 13 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: 08 08 1908 chart .bmp
Dimensions: #00 x 600 pixels

ay
Salons pre erlune
Teluan Spurs VUrawnys 3S
Ves ot. Nechone

Another way and more usual way for us to look at the chart from 8th August is as a Tee Square
between Saturn Neptune and Uranus and trine between Satum and Mars/Jupiter/Sun.

Notice once again we have, 7 »

1) A Trine, (aluyn Tent. Gn)

-2) A Conjunction involving the Trine.

3) One Planet involved in both a trine and a square at the same time.
4) Balanced aspects. That means the aspects aren’t exact but each aspect is not exact by the same
ammount Sat uare Neptune 5*. Saturn trine Sun 5*.

\pr

v \
Sun <n Vlas by 4x
dun wy sealer lr é€

Name: 8.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 14 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: 7.3pg
Dimensions: 883 x 904 pixels

--- PAGE 15 of 186 ---

[OCR] ....In order to substantiate Mr.Gann’s claims as to what he has been able to do under this method
we called upon Mr. William E. Gilley an Inspector of imports, 16 Beaver Street, New York.
Mr.Gilley is well-known in the downtown district. He himself has studied stock market
movements for twenty-five years during which time he has examined every piece of market
literature that has been issued and procurable in Wall Street. It was he who encouraged Mr.Gann
to study out the scientific and mathematical possibilities of the subject. When asked what had been
the most impressive of Mr. Gann’s work and predicitons he replied as-follows:

“Mr.Gann’s calculations are based on natural law. I have followed his work closely for years. I
know that he has a firm grasp of the basic principles which govern stock market movements, and I
-do not believe any other man on earth can duplicate the idea or his method at the present time.

“Early this year he figures that the top of the advance would fall on a certain day in August and
calculated the prices at which the Dow-Jones averages would then stand. The market culminated
on the exact day and: within four-tenths of one percent of the figures predicted.”

You and Mr.Gann must have cleaned up considerable money on all these operations was
suggested.

“Yes, we have made a great deal of money: He has taken half a million dollars out of the market
in the past few years. I once saw him take $130 and in less than one month run it up to over
$12,000. He can compound money faster than any man I ever met.”

So much for what Mr.Gann has said and done as evidenced by himself and others. Now as to ~
what demonstrations have taken place before our representative:

During the month of October, 1909, in twenty-five market days, Mr. Gann made, in the presence
of our representative two hundred and eighty-six transactions in various stocks on both the long
and short side of the market. Two hundred and sixty-four of these transactions resulted in profits;
twenty-two in losses.

The capital with he operated was doubled ten times so that at the end of the month he has one
thousand per cent on his original margin.

In our presence Mr.Gann sold Steel common short at 94-7/8 saying that it would:not got to 95.
It did not.

On a drive which occurred during the week ending October 29 Mr.Gann bought Steel common at
86 1/4 saying that it would not go to 86. The lowest it sold was 86-1/8.

We have seen him give in one day sixteen successive orders in the same stock eight of which
turned out to be at either the top or the bottom eight of that particular swing. The above we can
positively verify.

‘Such performances as these coupled with the foregoing are probably unparalleled in the history of
the Street.

Over the following pages you will learn how Gann made his predictions.

--- PAGE 16 of 186 ---

[OCR] Shins

Wheat September 30th 1909.

This is probably one of Ganns most famous and most puzzling trades because it is
mentioned in The Ticker interview and no-one has been able to rationally solve it until
now.

“One of the most astonishing calculations made by Mr.Gann was during last summer
(1909) when he predicted that September wheat would sell at $1.20. This meant that it
must touch that figure before the end of the month of September. At twelve o’clock.
Chicago time, on September 30th (the last day) the option was selling below $1.08,
and it looked as though his prediction would not be fulfilled. Mr.Gann said “If it does
not touch $1.20 by the close of the market it will prove that there is something wrong
with my whole method of calculation. I do not care what the price is now, it must go
there.” It is common history that September wheat surprised the whole country by
selling at $1.20 and no higher in the very last hour of the trading closing at that

figure.”

Of all the aspects here the only one that we are interested in first is the trine.(Venus

tine Neptune) and Tom the trine conjunctions squares or oppositions that can be

eee 10 the tins (NepiIne Sduare Saturn conjunet Moon and opposite rans

‘So here we a powerful Tee square that is activated by the faster moving planet
ill Tearn fro:

_Ahe trine is always the first aspect to look for as you er proofs in
“ this book for the Trine is the triangle or the one third of a circle that Gann often

mentions.

Later you will learn in detail about price targets on the hexagon chart but the last low
on September wheat was 96.5 which is a straight line target to120(360*)

and $1.20 was Ganns forecast price for this day when powerful astro aspects were at
work.

The hexagram is the symbol of the planets in occult literature and is the most
important Gann tool for forecasting prices.

ae et Reckune.

Oratqus oem Nee lune

10

--- PAGE 17 of 186 ---

[OCR] | Wednesday 8 Apal 1998 07:41 pm

sual 9 31 Sl Fy al 8) OSB SI | 6 Ks

- |[NEAFROCRS co

Name: ll.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1404 pixels

Il

--- PAGE 18 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: Gann cotton high 1923 chart .bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

As you look at the planetary positions when cotton made various highs and lows you have to do
a double take they look so similar.The first chart is of a cotton high on 30th November 1923
Mercury was trine Neptune with a conjunction of Mars/Satum at the midpoint.

The next chart is a cotton low in 1953 Jupiter is trine Mercury with a conjunction of Mars/Venus

at the midpoint.
Name: 12.4jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 19 of 186 ---

[OCR] none Tusaday ? Aged 1998 04:02 pen

Name: Gann cott low 1953 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 60C pixels

Name: 13.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

(3

--- PAGE 20 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: Gann cott top 1952 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Cotton top in 1952 and the low in 1953.

By now you will be able to see the basic pattern of aspects involving the trine.One or more of the
planets that are involved in the first part of the move (in this case the high) will also be involved in
the low.

When Cotton made its high on September 8 1952 the trine was Jupiter/Sun with Jupiter conjunct
Moon. At the low on January 12 1953 Jupiter was trine Mercury with a conjunction of Venus and

Wb Mars at the midpoint.
: cad Yadeat me Ct senile
2° un gandle .
AN Viloce “wvdvid
Oo ° io)
Name: 14.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

14

--- PAGE 21 of 186 ---

[OCR] i

-
29” with Hoorn j
=! A i
_ Ganncoflow 1953B coff A vac | a :
oe Cr
- | |
4 att TTT Dhrerrapy, .
~ ae\ | H i yf
at ih Mp By
xo : S hk i ia) ps Cee
|
D |
‘ Yp
y i
ne
foe ; hate?
i i
Comparison of the Coffee low in 1953 and the high in 1954.
As usual look for the trine at the first point,the low in 1953.In this case Moon trine Pluto.
At the midpoint is a Sun conjunct Neptune 3* Neptune i tly al int of tI ine and
the moon is also making an exact square with Venus so we have again the triangle and the
square,Pluto is the major planet in the trine.Notice that the high on 2 April 1954 once again
involved Pluto but in a grand trine of Pluto/Mars/Venus.At the high Pluto is also in perfect
balance at the midpoint of a Jupiter/Neptune trine.
Name: 15.jpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

1S

--- PAGE 22 of 186 ---

[OCR] _ [Teuceday 7 Apt 1998 98-19 pw, ooo:

Name: Gann coff high chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: 16.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

16

--- PAGE 23 of 186 ---

[OCR] /

EE) O IHPoaT ore

+ AetoMat chant db iraphic Gane roy top cept 14 19AT |

_ | Fhussdey 3 Apa 1998 05.0) pan ~ eee
! er] Bufige es] || 6a 2
Name: Gann soy top sept 14 1941.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Soybeans High September 14th 1941.

Gann said he sold Soys on this day which would have been impossible as it was a Sunday. We will
assume that he considered this days aspects important and this is why he sold (probably on the
Monday)
Once again we start with the trine(s) f
Moon trine Venus 0*
Uranus trine Neptune 3*|
Saturn trine Neptune 1*
weleced Then we look for conjunctions.
Saturn conjunct Uranus 1*

; ’ Rrehnz
is a trine with a conjunction at the end,Saturn/Uranus with Weagys Square the

Moon acting as the trigger (the triangle and the square). peal! (l ky bya?)
aan ae ‘

The moon is a pivotal part of this setup and this day would have been the only time that the moon
| would be in this position./n tunnel thru the air the moon plays an important part of the story

. Phe

astrologically.
Name: 17.43pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

7

--- PAGE 24 of 186 ---

[OCR] —
Name: soy low oct 17 1941 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels
1 yO oN
- ~ n
o- +73 dieoe
Soybeans low October 17th 1941... $245 "A
Gann mentions this date as the low but doe: ou bought it either though he did sell the high
on September 14th. This day a Friday-dnd there were three trines that were by
2* Ee rhey were Venus /Pluto, Sun/Jupitér Plus a triné with a conjunction on the end Neg i
2 us are slow moving Planets and a separation of 2" isa lot but
Name: 18.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

tial

--- PAGE 25 of 186 ---

[OCR] = alia siete:

Name: Gann sold soys again nov 14 1941..bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 6006 pixels

Soybeans sold November 14th 1941.

This is a lunar return of sorts.The earth goes 360* around the Sun and it is called an anniversary
date.In this example the Moon is back in the same position compared to Neptune as it was the
month before when the low was made.Now in this whole sequence of trades don’t forget that
Neptune is the key planet and the fast moving planets act as a trigger to the slower moving
aspects.

Name: 19.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

ta

--- PAGE 26 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name:

soy high nov 23 1948.bmp
Dimensions:

800 x 600 pixels

&
Soybeans High November 23rd 1948. A A

/

Jupiter/Mars. => Co 21u9bi

/

Andre solo

UM Sinysbo Man

a\ wd = ont

2a 140°

7 we?
Oxia ls ton € voll velece 7 2gfu iss 2

got

3) balances the aspects. Moon trine Jupiter 4*.
Mars conjunt Jupiter 4*,

ato

9
ce
com
h.
oe
Fe

c

~ The Moon is 1) the midpoint of a trine. ranus/Venus. :
2) is the of another trine that has a conjunction at the end.Moon trine

ov >
wl
pole .
‘
ae

Ss

yw *
\wVe

Oe

(> WW)

Ue
vow?

yo

Name:
Dimensions:

20.5pg
1057 x 1389 pixels

20

--- PAGE 27 of 186 ---

[OCR] aay 35
$3

ale | #0

ony

Bo ee dou

poi > Qiclo

eaphic/empects = {Suandap 5 Apa 198 0212 pm i nl ome
= —_—-—— - _

Name: Gann cotton high 1923 chart.bmp

Dimensions: 800 x 60C pixels

Cotton high November 30th 1923.

This is the trade where Gann took an account that he opened on the day of the high with $973
and turned it into $30.000 by the time he closed the account on January 28th 1924.Lets look at
why he sold the high and closed the account when he did.

The price high was 2 points from the target created by the hexagram midpoint.(target 367 actual
high 365)

Here is the astrology of the high. Venus trine Neptune with a conjunction of Saturn/Mars at the
midpoint.(part Hexagram) Saturn and Mars are 2 points from the high using the hexagon chart.
The day he closed the account Venus again featured as part of a trine,this time a grand trine
Venus conjunct Uranus trine Pluto and Saturn conjunct Moon.

21.4pg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

2i.

--- PAGE 28 of 186 ---

[OCR] ef ele

Gann fimshed cotton trades and close:

Name:

Dimensions:

cott trades complete 1924.bmp

800 x 600 pixels

Name:
Dimensions:

22.jpg

1057 x 1389 pixels

22

--- PAGE 29 of 186 ---

[OCR] ua

CHE Bt AOD

[ Tesesday 7 Aged 1998 06:16 pm

| _—
Name: Gann soy sold 4:2 charz.bmp i
Dimensions: 80G x 600 pixels i

den XS Tere eqinlsh
chp Goernero cast ue
an ylo equilatero

Soybeans sold April 27th 1954.

Gann sold the high at 412.On this day the Moon completed a grand trine with 2 separate part

hexagrams that also used the moon as a pivotal component. Jupiter was at the apex of two of these

FobeetS one a pe snd of the other, The price Gann sold at 412 was exactly equal to Jupiter on the
. hexagon Chart.(see the later chapter dealing with the hexagon)

Jupiter trine Neptune 0*

Neptune trine Moon 0*{ GRAUS TRING
Jupiter triné Moon 0*

Name: 23.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

23

--- PAGE 30 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: Gann soys buy may 5 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Soybeans buy/close May Sth 1954.

On May 5th Gann closed out his short position. On this day the Moon was trine Uranus and

conjunct Jupiter.
Kyo sdo NO RLS

Toss Trane Kry wr Hurry Gn

UDG ag alube ee Meehure
abo 6ot Suehur ?

Le wanchs luaki

Son ak the End.

Z~

24.3pg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

24

AG

<7 Yolo

--- PAGE 31 of 186 ---

[OCR] a AetaMoat I chant db. (Graph Gann cos cold again may 7 Y

XID] Ble]ol wel] <

Gann soys sold again may 7

|Geaphic/aspocts Tucsday 7 Agel 1998 04.31 pra.
Name: Gann soys sold again may 7 chart.bmp
Dimensicns: 805 x 600 pixels

Soybeans Gann sold again May 7th 1954.

Gann sold again May 7th. The trine/part hexagon with Neptune square Uranus in effect. | Rb
Gann sold when the Moon was conjunct Uranus. 7s)

Vo.

Name: 25.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

2s

--- PAGE 32 of 186 ---

[OCR] Thie chart, which compares W.D. Gana es annual forecasts wh the
i artunl marist, here shawn hy the Dew Jemen 20 indnatrial Btorks,
tae i | proves that bw forscartsa wees BS to 90% correct ores the period
. from 1919 to 1926 While the chart is not epnced the sens as the
i vrighnal furecests, dus lu lacs ul wave, & shows the Lives when lops
& dboitcens were lorecast ty the projected grephe and prnted
intmetions in ench yenr's predictions.

[RE see reese re eencem |
Dow Jones 20 Inchiumah
W.D. Ginn Love cast

Name: 26.gif
Dimensions: 698 x 469 pixels

26

--- PAGE 33 of 186 ---

[OCR] THE MORNING TELEGRAPH
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1922
GANN FORETOLD RUN OF STOCKS

Wall street Scientist Forecasted Top of Bull Market Year in Advance.
HIS INDICATIONS UNCANNY :
By ARTHUR ANGY (financial Editor, The North Side Nesw)

W.D.Gann has scored another astounding hit in his 1922 stock forecast issued in December 1921.
That forecast called for first top of the bull wave in April, second top in August, and the final top
and culmination of the bull market October 8 to 15, and strange as it may seem, the average prices
of twenty industrial stocks reached the highest point on October 14 and declined 10 points in
thirty days after that date.

Mr.Gann predicted a big decline for the month of November. He said in the 1922 forecast:
“November 10-14 panicky break.” During this period stocks suffered a severe decline, many
falling 10 points or more in four days and on November 14 lowest average prices were made with
1,500,000 shares traded in on the New York Stock Exchange.

I found his 1921 forecast so remarkable that I secured a copy of his 1922 stocks forecast in order
to prove his claims for myself. And now, at the closing of the current year of 1922, it is but justice
to say I am more than amazed by the result of Mr. Gann’s remarkable predictions based on pure
science and mathematical calculations.

The North Side News stands for a clean Wall Street and has rendered a great public service in
helping to rid Wall Street of the bucket shop evil by publishing a series of articles in conjunction
with the Magazine of Wall Street. We believe in branding a fake, and we believe in giving credit
where due.

GANN NO TIPSTER

Mr. Gann is no “Wall Street tipster.” sending out market letters and so-called “inside
information.” Mr. Gann’s results are obtained by profound study of supply and demand, a
mathematical chart of money, business and commodities. He determines when certain cycles are
due, and the order and the time when market movements will follow.

During the past thirty years many men have proclaimed discoveries and theories to “beat the Wall
Street game .” most of which resulted in loss to their followers. They could always tell by the
chart just why the market did it after it happened. Mr.Gann’s theory differs from the others in that
he tells months in advance what stocks are going to do.

His forecast stated that some stocks would make high this year in April, some in August and
others in October- the months when he predicted the bull movement would culminate. Of a list of
a hundred stocks; thirty made highest prices in April and many declined, while others continued
higher; twenty made high during August, and fifty made high of the year in October, from which
the largest decline of the year has taken place.

--- PAGE 34 of 186 ---

[OCR] His 1922 forecast indicated final tops on railroad stocks for August 14. The Dow Jones’s
averages on rail made high August 21 and reached the same average levels an September 11 and
October 16, but did not exceed the high made in August, which was made seven days later than
the exact date called for in the forecast.

HIS CHART A FACT

Such accurate long range forecasting as Mr.Gann is doing sounds almost unbelievable, and how
he does it I do not know, but the writer does know that he does it. My attention was first called to
his 1921 forecast in which he predicted that stocks would be bottom in August, 1921, and
advance to December, 1921. They did so. His chart or graph of the market one year in advance is
a fact, and that the course of the stock market follows it astoundingly close is equally a fact.

Mr.Gann says the trouble with most chart makers is that they work with only one factor-space
movements or charts that record one to two points up or down-whereas there are three or more
factors to be considered, space, volume and time The most vital is time, and back of that is the
cause of recurrence of high or low prices a certain intervals.

T asked Mr.Gann: “What is the cause behind the time factor?”

He smiled and said: “It has taken me twenty years of exhaustive study to learn the cause that
produces effects according to time. That is my secret and too valuable to be spread broadcast. ©
Besides, the public is not yet ready for it.”

“Water seeks its level.”continued Mr.Gann. “You can force it higher with a pump, but when you
stop pumping it requires no force to cause it to return to its former level. Stocks are the same.
They can be forced above their natural level of values to where lambs lose all fear, become
charged with hope and buy at the top. Then stocks are permitted to sink to a level where hope
gives way to despair and the most rampant bull becomes a bear and sells out with a loss. My
discovery of the time factor enables me to tell in advance when these extremes must, by the law of
supply and demand, occur in stocks and commodities.”

28 :

--- PAGE 35 of 186 ---

[OCR] + AshuMait > 3

chant dh [lraphic t

Bis] Belo] @

Dow tow 1921

ae

ise) Sf Bl of al SB 2s) SA ol BB eK A: INGARSes wx

Low August 24th 1921.

Gann predicted the stock market low on August 24th 1921. Saturn conjunct Jupiter 1*.
Saturn/Jupiter cycles are always important in the big picture but here are the aspects that fine
tuned the turn. The Moon creates the trinc as; to Sun conjunct Mercury 1.47*

and square Mars conjunct Neptune (exact) On the same day Jupiter is conjunct Saturn
1.46#(Balanced) The fat Tat there were 3 conjunctions at the same time would be an important

factor in this turning point.

Ay
i gove 23> fey 9 — re

‘ a HEBNT

Tl
e

Wargo (eo ate

Name: 29.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1404 pixels

29

© C . 60 + k
( ger 2h => =? Tock, Jee fers a hula)

--- PAGE 36 of 186 ---

[OCR] PRT ePLEP Le Lely Mc?

Mor sto ma abbame be shi mime Fue Wd bolln, Ayo 1821 wwso:
Ton

WA IN Yoo squat Neeluag,

a
berus Auto

Top August 14th 1922.
August 14th 1922 was the predicted date for the high. The actual date was the 21

st but as always
we will study the predicted date when it is given exactly. \
The trine is Mars/Neptune 0* with a Venus conjunct Saturn 0*
, on)
’ C, 99)
ue vale 7 dhisno (each)
souber
60
(0) ~
+ Haber syract 2ie
‘ WO Nuthun ~
Yes tA Wes Gas Safer v
Name: 30.jpg t tnd Gin Qin
Dimensions: 1057 x 1404 pixels

W scr dees g

Jur, S

--- PAGE 37 of 186 ---

[OCR] ftoMat 5b chart dh {how low 1401 |

[bandey 6 Apal 1990 07.15 pm , a

Name: Dow low 192i.bmp
Dimensions: 80C x 600 pixels

Name: 31.4jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

3!

--- PAGE 38 of 186 ---

[OCR] + AstroMamt So

[Gann sto bs top Aug 142.

Name: Gann stocks aug 1922.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: 32.jpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 39 of 186 ---

[OCR] a

is

p$
2

gihte Feszegseya

5
Pre ety a

=

aif
3
is

2
if
D4 RAZ0IO KUNG MOOK AS

aid
Ms

x
a

C2

stéiziurt
I
Top October 8-15th 1922.

The actual date of the high was October 14th. ?
The main factors in this turn were t! aCgrouping of conjunctions) ar the Sun that was also square

V

Mars.
The short term timer was the Moon trine Venus and within this trine was
Sun conjunct Mercury 1* > 14 olobee.

Sun square M: a
Gann said there was always some sort of relationship between a top and bottom and this is why
the trine and the square are so important as starting points.

At the low in August 1921 the trine was Moon to conjunct Sun/Mercury and the square was t
,Moon to Mars. At this high the very same planets are involved. eee i

Another very common relationship is to look at the wheel at a high or low and find the
Inext major planet (anticlockwise) that is not involved in the present aspects and you will find that
this planet will be a feature of the next high or low.

ee pane eS ee on ne Next fgh ¢

Name: 33.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1404 pixels

3S

--- PAGE 40 of 186 ---

[OCR] + AstioMod tt ochart dh [Graptie Gann pancky break 192

<7 WeOlO
mx 40

[Wednesday 6 Apel 1998 02:36 pm

ase) O94 te od el Sy A ed EKO ROD REaTOS ux,

4 Tee with a conWnckion at the ind + Squste

Panicky decline November 10-14th 1922.

November 10th.

Jupiter trine Uranus 6*

Jupiter conjunct Mercury 0*

Jupiter Square Moon 3* Jupiter square Mars 4*

The Negative Astro pattern here is the Tee Square that is getting additional power from the
Jupiter Mercury conjunction square Mars.

bond cc wie:
Hor °
& Nous 5 Se saber
thxs my Vorsurr
Ro
Ro Be $°
ton ° OOM)
Name: 34.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1404 pixels

--- PAGE 41 of 186 ---

[OCR] | Penne see ce he apt wee]
aoe) | 9c] By) a0) cl oe Be NE ee] J BRAY Reamer ne

Name: 35.4jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1404 pixels

35.

--- PAGE 42 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: panicky break 1922.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels
Name: 36.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

36.

--- PAGE 43 of 186 ---

[OCR] + feboMait st chart [Seaptas Cw top 1924 |

Monday 6 Apd 1998 07:26pm = as

Nane: Dow top 1929 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 80C x 600 pixels

“schuald’ by the

Top September 3rd 1929.

The famous 1929 top from which the Dow declined by 90 percent. ° ine is Mars/Jupiter the
as; to the trine is Mars conjunct Mercury which are also in opposition to Uranus.

sy rola d gro() ethan

Name: 37.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 44 of 186 ---

[OCR] [shire | Suncdey 6 Apa 1988 06:44 pn .

Name: gann oct 3 1931 low chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Low October 3rd 1931.
This was the low predicted in “Tunnel th
This is an impressive pattern an exact@ra
Uranus/Jupiter.

RELL SSO we “hte sbbisnno )

e.air” .The Actual low was October 5th.
Saturn/Uranus/Pluto/Venus and The trine is

—_—__—”
Views
fe)
a4 7
Owes
vo Surihec

Name:

38.3pg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

38

--- PAGE 45 of 186 ---

[OCR] 4

Name: Dow

top 1929.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name:

Dimensions:

39.jpg

1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 46 of 186 ---

[OCR] Uranus

Square Jupiter $.02 -27
Trine Ascendant 6.25 18
Trine Uranus 1.25 66
Trine Midheaven = 7.10 5
Square Uramus 0.56 +89
Opposition Phito 5.20 -61
Sextile Ascendant 0.55 93
Square Phito 4.24 “UM
Trine Midheaven 5.46 8
Tre Ascendant 4.25 4
685 -1068 -383
[andiyeieaioeeeht pe oe
t
Name: gann oct 3 1932 low.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels
Name: 40.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

40.

--- PAGE 47 of 186 ---

[OCR] i

au

Ls
’

ele

a

‘poe >: 4 O10

arf

BD re x tow

Name: Gann stocks low feb 1932 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Non sdo MGs SHC
Son ams. Thcs cons. oon ( 6 Febbrace)
Ge CA
Bo

Onanes

Low February 10th 1932. Suahee
The trine in October was Uranus/Jupiter with a 2* separation. The separation was now only half a

degree. Opposite Jupiter (1*) was a Sun conjunct Mars aspect (2*).

C

Name: 41.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

4!

--- PAGE 48 of 186 ---

[OCR] oaphicPompacts “ce, [Mandap Aga YS8B 08 on

Name: Gann stocks high march 1932 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 60C pixels

High March 8th 1932.

Mars/Sun/Jupiter were the key planets in the February 10th prediction and on March 8th the Sun
is trine Pluto 2* and Pluto is square Uranus 2* so the Sun is ina position to balance the aspects.

Name:

42.jpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

42

--- PAGE 49 of 186 ---

[OCR] '

slaw feb Pate

Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: Gann stocks low feb 1932.bmp

Name: 43.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

43

ars NR

--- PAGE 50 of 186 ---

[OCR] AstoMatt 53 chart db [igon stocks biah match ETL? }

Name:

gann stocks high march 1932.bmp

Dimensions: g00 x 600 pixels

Name:
Dimensions:

44.Jjpg
1057 x 1389 pixels

44

--- PAGE 51 of 186 ---

[OCR] \Grophicfespects ch het | Mondep & Apel 1998 7.31 pai
Name: Dow low 1932 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Low July 8th 1932.
The March 8th high involved the Sun/Piuto trine at the July 8th low Pluto was conjunct the Sun

(5* separation) on July 8th the trines were Jupiter/Uranus exact.The square was Uranus/Pluto 1*
Pluto was trine the node 1*.

Name: 45.4jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 52 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: gann top sept 1932 chart.bmp
Dimensions: g0C x 600 pixels

High September 20-21st 1932. ,

The predicted high was for the 20th or 21st of September and the 23rd turned out to be the
secondary high meaning Gann missed the actual high but did manage to sell the bounce.As always
we look for the trine.In this case Sun trine Saturn 0* Saturn opp Mars 2* this is similar to the July
20th high 1998 (see hexagon chart and Planetary activity chapier) Sun trine Jupiter and Jupiter_

Square Mars.
Name: 46.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

46

--- PAGE 53 of 186 ---

[OCR] fs
= ArtoMad So chart dt [Cow low USC]
Name: Dow low 1932.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels
Name: 47.Jjpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 54 of 186 ---

[OCR] + A teMatt 5 3 chat Pleo h

Name:

Gann top sept 1932.bmp

Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name:
Dimensions:

48.jpg
1057 x 1389 pixels

4%

--- PAGE 55 of 186 ---

[OCR] ™ : [Tinsedey 9 Aged 1998 07:02 pew
Misea| | %, Hole e| Jeane
Name: gann low oct 5 1932.bmp

Dimensions: 80C x 600 pixels

Low October 4-5th 1932.

On the Sth of October the aspects were Moon trine Venus 1* Moon trine Uranus 5* Uranus in
grand cross with Saturn/Pluto and Mercury 4* separations. .
Mercury conjunct Sun 4* so the aspects were balanced.

Name: 49.4pg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

aq

--- PAGE 56 of 186 ---

[OCR] 2 Astra ant 5

Ea:

Name: gann low march 1933 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Low March Ist 1933.

The trines are Moon/Mars 0* and Moon/Neptune 2*.Neptune conjunct Mars 2* balanced aspects
and the Moon is square to Saturn 1} *. :

Name: 50.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

50

--- PAGE 57 of 186 ---

[OCR] flow Oct 4S TI3e

Name:
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name:
Dimensions:

5S1l.4pg
1057 x 1389 pixels

SI.

--- PAGE 58 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name:
Dimensions:

Gann low march 1933.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

Name: 52.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

52

--- PAGE 59 of 186 ---

[OCR] chant dh [atapkus Gana chap dechre 122 |

: -
Name: gann fast define july 1933 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 80C x 600 pixels

High July 17th 1933.

This was a Monday and he predicted a fast break into the 21st of July.On the Saturday the Sun
was conjunct Pluto 0* of orb. On the 17th the Moon formed a trine with Mars .There would not
be any other trines in this week. Between this trine were two conjunctions Sun/Pluto 1* and
Mercury/Venus 4* .

Jupiter was also in the same position due to retrograde/direct motion as it was at the low on
March 1st.(see the Strange Clocks chapter).

It is interesting to note that Mercury also went retrograde at 13* Leo on this day and that on the
16th of October 1987 Mercury went retrograde at 13* Scorpio just before the crash day.

Name: 53.jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

53.

--- PAGE 60 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: Gann low july 1933 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Low daly 21st 1933. 5

This is a solar return to the exact aspect Pluto made with the Sun at the low is on July 8th
1932.On that date the Sun was conjunct Pluto with a separation of 5*.

For The 21st of July 1933 Gann predicted another low as the Sun and Pluto were again conjunct
with a separation of 5*.

Venus trine Uranus 4* Uranus square the Sun 0*

Name: 54.Jpg
Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

54

co ctemamtintinnenin mmm RE

--- PAGE 61 of 186 ---

[OCR] + AstroMait S 3 chet dt oe steatpy dew tinue:

Name: gann fast decline july 1933.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: 55.jpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

5S

--- PAGE 62 of 186 ---

[OCR] t

Name: Gann low july 1933.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

L

Name: 56.jpg

Dimensions: 1057 x 1389 pixels

--- PAGE 63 of 186 ---

[OCR] i]

The hexagon chart.
Price and planetary activity at the same point

The hexagram in Occult tradition is the symbol of the planets. Ganns hexagon chart is

also one of the most important for getting planetary price targets.
You will notice on Ganns may soybean chart how fast the Mars trendline is when

| converted straight from longitude degree to price. The hexagon is used to slow the
trend line down. This is done by using the numbers on the hexagon chart as they relate

to price eg the numbers on the chart 90 to 91 are covered by the degrees 0 through to

It is always important when working on price targets to check the hexagon chart as

well as just doing straight longitude conversion.

Here are two examples on the S+P where turns triggered by planetary aspects were
related by price on the hexagon chart. enim 0? A 2. A gees Gra eshyrius

At the major S+P low of 444 Jupiter/Pluto were also conjunct at a price of 444 (28*

Scorpio)on the hexagon chart. Jupiter/Pluto were (0*of orb) on November 25th 1994.
he low of 444 was made on Noni 3rd Guo dgeeigy
The October 1997 hi 92 was le when Pluto/Mars were conjunct .The act!
high was 3 days later when price reached the same degree where Pluto/Mars were
conjunct.Prices then fell to low of 844 on the 28th October in a move that was

described later as a mini crash.
The next major top on 20th July 1998 involved Jupiter.

Jupiter was 180* from 1199 on the hexagon chart when it formed a Sun/Jupiter trine
and Mars/Jupiter square.1199 was the futures high and led to a price low of 929 on
Octo¥er 8th as Mars made an exact trine with Saturn.

Sai was 927 on the hexagon chart.

To be Vinus Spuase Teber

37

--- PAGE 64 of 186 ---

[OCR] > 1234 129} 129211491 1290 (289 ZF 1287 Anes Res 126 1282 1240

.

4

, 8 e”™
x Solainladaal

oan
a EHH
=
+
in
Ef

, ow

1e fro ny
wine, ail iar ee NY/s0y/
-BPay2P 24) 202. AS 244] 208 206 207 WE cK Yq, Af 466
: Wp a eee % /Ser/h55

am rng ng 2 3 & 6
: 1 Vee He,

.
ra fae ps

Seay it

40 § p Sat

bbe cod - 6-607. be Gio 6H -et G5 - he
i eee = Ss = ha
Oy -7er fe

Jupiter conjunct Pluto at major S+P low of 444.
V 58
Cun yuh aS 2.38° 30 2 ok Sob
PA vz ra E ovad:

--- PAGE 65 of 186 ---

[OCR] : a _| Aasyapy TORR 104110 150 thee 157 «1094 105 Jig es $082 tos} ago Eolaiok q ios! ve oY
va kf Beare dctied san Pet see
Alor aa jepaatetetersas aS s
: 44062/s46 Yee to Fs0. 74 706 a5 74 745-744] 743 EE. a
sped gus ff

Ssh 430 4
Le SS
5 = 410 47 416 fe see sp fe ee

bes 51 350 ar . os 4:
hI 2g BERN Bg =o
A ae ‘silt palsuluuluuheinf one x
%. ee 95 Bi It
Sika 13 we jo] k73 178
(us 187} US6 tas
Sf
t/a cack

; \bs 4
2 mr OS 244] 208 206 207 :

* Ra 8
hae noe pet

“ $s B = aro" 2
py - we Sus
, w7 are aes !

THOR 1904 1K LIDS HOF 1hOG] tres v7 or
eae Se ee eee ee
Name: hex.jpg

Dimensions: 1104 x 1406 pixels

Mars conjunct Pluto at high of 992 October 1997.

FO

--- PAGE 66 of 186 ---

[OCR] The hexagon and 1908.

The first thing that struck me about the date Gann made his greatest discovery for
finding the trend of stocks and commodities were the numbers themselves.

08((19) 08.
I won’t bore you with the details of how but this is what I eventually discovered is an
additional property of the hexagon.Support and resistance are calculated by counting
the first number (The high or low) as one and counting eight places.

\This does not always calculate his target prices but as you have already learnt there are
lother methods to be used depending on the Astrology of the moment. This system
does calculate every price target in Ganns 1954 coffee trades so I believe that it is
valid.I have seen it working repeatedly in todays market. Here follows some of Ganns
price predictions plus some modern market examples and then the astrology of the
complete sequence of Ganns coffee trades.

--- PAGE 67 of 186 ---

[OCR] ou

, aie |

=e soe

of as

. -
2S

a)

ch
Ke
ie
4H
-

Nee anaes race a yaneun

cA BEL F320 & 5 be foo: 7o{
vay forehenol mead nope of arp ipopaps
Cy P| aa

ee

Fm foe fea afloy eon ey
Shes tee le tater fe Srey
apenas leas eae | :
SSS SS oaamnnai mie

Shes.
~ ech 2 ko iS3 . ee,
— Wor loante hed (62 463
— cok who 2 shee co bar 168
In 1908 when Union Pacific was 168-1/8, he told me that it would not touch 169
before it had a good break. We sold it short all the way down to 152-5/8, covering on

the weak spots and putting it out again on the rellies, securing twenty-three points
profit out of an eighteen-point wave.

6!

--- PAGE 68 of 186 ---

[OCR] ear
ems frie oe pe Perey

ae Seca IH
Se ae

He calculates that May wheat, which is now selling at $1.02, should not sell below 99
cents, and should sell at $1.45 next spring.

62

--- PAGE 69 of 186 ---

[OCR] Spares E

Dah bd gd bad acl szdya aN --

4 O soi Gh EN 022.
Ya \raNle alesechecheh

Hi Ne P gre

ae = tH Ssuanaced

ar
2 AG aaa
= aren i oe ag i

Joss shee 0 este ee rake bir dd

inwntnne | gee: a cee
a
Tae ata fa solo a moe pty epi pl alah

reactio’ nfm hese pres — commodity should reach 18 cents in the s spring o a

On cotton, which is now at about the 15 cents level, he estimates that, after |
He looks for a corner in the March or May option.

é3

--- PAGE 70 of 186 ---

[OCR] % ee ee
Pe

i oo in i ff J Nea A ian

Ea po af] from por se teN
% 2 int 28 2
BZ

iain :
eee = = =
cat pd Doe a pees

es
Ses Se)
age =
TN i“ ‘S (Nise Violate
2s Les ty

ieee er
See :

ae eat

penceens

1/20) she) 2/ | eFroalorohon ‘ ‘
ee

Cotton 12 1/2 (125) cents low predicted high 24 1/2 (245) for September 1927.

64

--- PAGE 71 of 186 ---

[OCR] ed
= [8°
o1 1 FR

a 3
ae —

a72\d7\eeo\bas\si2 ors ef |
eg

ne HH

ame

IEE CEERELELEE
3 ZH8l'

att al Eel ale)
EEFEEG !

b xf
4 a aE:
; i
in

-

nH
aaeitasit
ae

ie
ne ae ae q

=

yy
Q
‘Su

St

Mee op wrt = a ol eyes
peceesog

7 Gece

Jo38 4

“He came to me when United States Steel was selling around 50 and said ‘This Steel
will run up to 58 but it will not sell at 59. From there it should break 16 3/4 points.’
We sold it short around 58 3/4 with a stop at 59. The highest it went was 58 3/4. From
there it declined to 41 1/4 -17 1/2 points.

--- PAGE 72 of 186 ---

[OCR] a

ta Ee Gocco
: ae
8

Athena xls olf ico
O r- #) ,
yt

ct oe: Ros ape paar Ta : vA FH
ae ae Vin aanee
ara SO?

FERC

rearalaaped
iS eter satars Ex
aaa ieee cea ee

Crude oil.
High 213 (0) $21.30 October 3rd 1997 Target 134.5 $13.45 actual low $13.50.

66

--- PAGE 73 of 186 ---

[OCR] Wah me kie
B2/ 53 16
Whe his hi
:
7, Y
|
eae
O 299,
A 7

a72 680\b93\si2 6p\305 al jit bf

SiG amnU acne

979, ¢74\ 773682556 B 370 yal iss 196 157 fa 159 fico Ty hi s
yeaa alate f

“Ty hee pias fone
a oe _ Sanseseeeeee

Yeap = cm r =
Phe set a ae So
es

 -

aes elt

ae eerie
Sessa tt

i areata ar
Farle age etree yy HEE

A THES

March cotton high 402 September 8th 1952.
Predicted low 321.

67

--- PAGE 74 of 186 ---

[OCR] foi ear prea pve for Pe adeetre oh eh L
Varn eae eeee Ae ae
om eeee e See -

og ee eee ee

eee

plop ciaae =a a
ts = 8
eek Le ne ae oes ae

s Sa

see . \e : bap] dy b's
Ber Exit Le :
a ar Pel 1-H

a a Bar pay

ee es eee a7
een? Srcuuc amie

cs eres fae rere

os ee ——

a

S+P high 99
Target 842 actual lo w 844,

-

68

ime

--- PAGE 75 of 186 ---

[OCR] bth
ne
WAiAie cal
eaacation
Noe

. e eS
ne

ibe
SHAT

ee
of cla
i
nofeey of)

_

hohe ee

Coffee low 56.70 October 13th 1953 predicted high 95.20 April 2nd 1954.
Gann sold at 94.30.

69

--- PAGE 76 of 186 ---

[OCR] uy aoe “||
Sf cee aa -
[2S ,

a
V

8

Sel

7 as ae
: 8 aan
sot 3 ALY,
eS
i eg eee
Plane

Ck Sy a ee dan
TT SITS a bit mien te
— Arerhertoseen em P aa FL Se eeee eee mannan
Be pie ofa cutee eat be Ah oat
Te] [| Stes patois eters eae] ||
| Heidgteersedr ete tae z
“| Seehesprrsterapprmepory eserer ath whet? [Eee |
yshyedd 127012 22 1726 1 225 40 |tZ3 ASE WES bes
SEMRNER RG cess seers aeeeeeee
er a itr afer eateries rah Ht “FEC

1 ceed ba
a ne a

-.--1..24@ 4

70

--- PAGE 77 of 186 ---

[OCR] Se | ero eegsueecas ak
fs gle Re fn CESLEGCE LE oat Soe fer
la fsfins foc she aes_sdp nat a t_o af t2 Seed Neal =
| Tey Noe et ee as RSA | bets
oooh dn Bees a nee Tt
otek: es tt
tar ch ha ieee Pavia ee
°| = ee ee

\ . iS me acon sa -

23g {39° D4 BE 135
<acKJcE
% ef “ee

care as
ae 2 oes
\ ay Sedu See eee eee:
oo

one rR Ue ta i i
: oe ie eee eee

Seeger
Se seccseca, Amott
Spanner tate

ee P Erie EEEEEE

April 15th Gann sold again at 87.75.

TI

--- PAGE 78 of 186 ---

[OCR] = are aS a
Sais ORC eUSy as
oes
ee
eee
ee rarest
ee
eee ) hay

=

mses

April 21st Gann closed out at 85.50.

72

--- PAGE 79 of 186 ---

[OCR] (Geaphic/eapects [Tenedey 7 Apel 1998 08:11 pm

Name: Ganr coff high chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

A Grand trine and a Tee square with balanced aspects for timing
eg. Mercury square Jupiter 5* and Jupiter opposite Mars 5*

Name: 73.jpg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

--- PAGE 80 of 186 ---

[OCR] - AshoMan 53 caatds [Graphr Lana coflee buy/ehoe ape ld |

[Romie S06 om

Name: Gann coff buy close apr 14 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

The Moon is critical in short term swings.

Gann closed out with the Moon trine Venus 5* and Venus opposite Saturn 5*.
The aspects are once again balanced. __ en

Name: 74.4pg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

74

--- PAGE 81 of 186 ---

[OCR] obj acain apt 1 f

ActreMait 5 2orhac dh {ue sphe

OR EON:

[mcg 7 Ae 1S88 04D pn

Name: Gann coff sold again april 15 chart.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

i Gann sold again on April 15th at 87.75.

‘The Moon was again creating a strong aspect a Tee square. In all cases multiple trines
were still in force.

Name: 75.jpg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

%S

--- PAGE 82 of 186 ---

[OCR] - ArtioMgnt > 3S -chattdb [uraphee Gann cat apt Zl ctose |

~ : — Fleadeg ? ea 1998 OBS pe i

Gann coff apr 21 close chart.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

April 21st Sun trine Mars.Sun opposite Saturn.

Gann took profits on The Tath of April when acpects were balanced by 5*. This time
there were a new set of planets with aspects balanced by 5*. On this day the Sun was
opposite Saturn 5* on the 14th it was Venus opposite Saturn 5*.

Name: 76.4jpg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

76

--- PAGE 83 of 186 ---

[OCR] StoMon hs Jochen db [ann cattee tigh 184

7~y

Name: Gann coff high 1954.pmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: 77.5pg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

7?

--- PAGE 84 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: Gann coff buy close apr 14.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels
Name: 78.3pg

Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

78

--- PAGE 85 of 186 ---

[OCR] Magasin apnl 16]

i
L

Name: Gann coff sold again apr 15.bmp
Dimensions: 80C x 600 pixels

Name: 79.4pg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

79

--- PAGE 86 of 186 ---

[OCR] ia -366
Work 388 171
268 120
Planet 3 Aspect Planet 2
" Trine Mars
Opposition Saturn
Opposthan Neptune
Sextile Midheaven
‘Trine Mercury
Mercury Square Uranus
‘enus Seatile Uranus
‘emus Square Phuto
Seatile Satu
Square Ascendant
Opposition Midheaven
jupiter Trine Neptune
jupiter Sextie Phuto
fupwer Conjuncton Midheaven
Trine Midheaven
Uranus Square Neptune
Neptune Seatile Pluto
jeptune Trine Midheaven
822 448

+ AstoMan 5 Fo chatab fganncotfhap ot close f

Orb/Value

1.56
<D
642
0.37
244
5.277
2.07
1.10
3.16
2.38
2.33
0.57
1.00
WAIT
5.49
3.14
157
6.05
4

158
bt)
-61
169
2
-10
141
97
47
wy
“112
3
63
42
“i
6
3
5

Name: gann coff apr 21 chart.bmp

Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels
i
|
|
|
1
Name: 80.jpg

Dimensions: 1054 x 1409 pixels

8d

--- PAGE 87 of 186 ---

[OCR] }

A Thagio A254, 7

Jupiter Ingress. 4

uv w
( How To Us SQUARE OF NWE

May Soybean High at 276
Gann worked on the basis that Planetary Ingress was a potential trigger for trend __
change.

Looking at the May bean chart again your first thought would be that 270 (the ingress
longitude of Jupiter converted to price 270* =270 cents.) would be the exact price
level. Ganns P: ersonal square of 9 chart ha ed on it this being 360 or zero

degrees on the

[sew i e of nine for may beans starts at 44 cents this being the lowest recorded
price in the contracts history.

To properly use a square of nine chart (price) that doesn’t start at one you need to
combine it with- another Jquare of Hine that does: Why? THe price square of nine necds
I EL TE re SES
‘of the other you will get proper squaring.

Looking at our may bean square of nine Superimposed on the time square of nine 40 A 4

days from the low is exactly opposite 276 the high. Also 40 days was the square of the ~
range from the low of 2(40). In February 1998 I copied this method with the slight
variation in that I also used the 1908 target method. Either way it worked.
The steps

1. convert Jupiter ingress into Longitude degrees to an approximate price are:

where soybeans are trading.
2. use may soybeans price square of nine and then superimpose the-time-

square of nine to fine tune your target.

This is how Gann would have worked it out Jupiter is about to change signs and so

this would be the time for a change of trend so on day 40 time is opposite price.275 is

opposite the 238 low and time and price is at aspect 180* or 90* square.

This is what I did.-On Febuary 4th 1998 Jupiter changed signs and was at zero degrees

pisces until the 9th of Febuary. [have found things usually don’t get moving until the
lanet changes to I degree of a new sign but from Febuary 4th I monitored the time

Square of Saini The peice Square to Ser-ahen they were square and then I sold a break

of that days range.

|] The 1908 target from the 662 low was 694 1/2. Using the square of nine on day 20 the /

closest price that was square was 695.The actual high was 697.

(Gann never counted the day of a high or a low saying that they belonged as the
last day of the previous price swing.)

This method can be used on all grains when Jupiter is changing signs. Gann marked his
chart off in 15 cent target bands this being half of each signs range of 30 degrees.
Which price divisions of the 360* circle you use is dependent on the commodities
volitility.

St.

--- PAGE 88 of 186 ---

[OCR] For something like oats 15 cents is fine but with soybeans 90* (1/4 of 360*) is usual
(price 840+90*=930 etc) when soybeans are at low price levels or trading quietly 45*
is good eg.500 545 590 etc.

The markings on the following charts are the price/longitude where Jupiter changed

signs and they were projected for the whole . Where 2 lines are closer toget!
it is Because Jupiter is just about to change sign.

--- PAGE 89 of 186 ---

[OCR] i MAY SoY BEA yt eS a
eyes me Rez aaoaw bi —

Bri ia 4 438 dua 36/435 Se a”

cal!
1 EF

4
es
Et

a a Price dacs ly

W.D.Gann square of nine for may soybeans. >) 44 _ why ?
——

Time starts from day 1 in the middle of the square. a |

Day 40 is opposite price of 276 so it is Square.
Lovet Price in hishory

f
fo
A= 4518-0 = 54 /
Zi = 544@xe2).4 =¥! ;
j TAC?
96 = 414 (843)- 2536 6 a
; Ses A

23 = set(snq)-22 42g |

bc. che. ) 83

--- PAGE 90 of 186 ---

[OCR] | eee — ~. as . — — a
069 bbb LI $bg. ae 50L Yad cok log | vod \0d bi 668 86E LEE | WELSEE the \8de TEE 16€| Of b8E BBE LEE IRE Bah 845. (677
(bg etl 649 Hog LOE 90k, FEE ME) (EE OFF |brk Bre CRE FTE Gee ETE eset are |éreerelre 96 58k 9h LAS 49,

oe nnes RO Se Ree Reena pecs. i

<b§ bed be9 beg S86 Lob EEE Gor Beri Lae | FIT SIT Joc 89 9X1 (9% O9T GF. ape dpe PGR PPE APE SVE SEO 196 PHS. bEP

_ oo - ~ —— ee 4 |
e68 0g. $69 866 iad Sob 586 ole efx} ie adn lox|9ox|-Foribor leer.
$be ial 9. 66s | 6% bos 98E Mle EIT SIL\ 4 vai IL \ OPM BSL ied
Sb8x8L bea 08s| (68 oré\Lee bear 99

T

geal 39 185 bb 106 BEE elel an ale

LEg#8L) M985 6 Eb <b bee tbr ary
a 568-980 089 ELF Wee ‘EH OLE Sle 8/691 87 $6 Zi £4
8 I BES She pth |

lea lel <89585|\Vb-Sfbieke Lbelorr Cay,

wer | (or opt |epe Lveleee, eonsliag,8e9
SES: db bege f78 TEE GPA LS LEI
BLL UL Ye abr 5 (pcx | (88 BZ 6S i969
a; EGG Ebr age 118 088 bb 045 $69

(| bbr ave bLE 986) BG oe)
+

‘/\ebe bor lace sph\obs ee9
be 808 | de Ape| beg 67 |
Phe Lot | ILE ESL, BEF (EP
Lege 908 |s eee rd Les: a7
bL 2 \6a/l9s bbe $08 Lace ce '965 by

4 jal ad baled He sep a7
Log “ed 987 $85 oop 6d) GbE (8th bee PL/BEN SEN 98 LE/ 86, Aa? aa

Coe Pe pp ot WN
sebhi le9 ob§ 10$ Of dee cenioee Wi bas ter bt) oR te: we, sete BAIN LES PRL pe! cof 1L€ SE [ees v9

4

16 26 6a 24

Been

Zé

lob sad £89 985 LbE IBCLE ale ets e/ a6 AL AYE

af bebiba9 las ebelrb lose ble leet ec/e/ 6a L$ | Ul

x] 20g 962) $89 385 bébé erelpee oge| Fee Pol) EEA 097 fo/\<o/|80

ff ‘

LEtouD

Ice

38

S }

c7 of jeoe «LE boo bes bey

906 601489. (8G | OS: Fes 8b 6 €8°|F5 der Set gee aft (6c leet ce SET
beg bl b89-<bf | F0p ed b8ELEX ser 9g Zevjeee larjede|’ | be[re ede i o “a Lbe|egc| de eh dae 698 IL 189 xP:

dk /af lode 41 rey 9

aap + —|—

L9-blo| sac bs cosloed deb beh beh oe | 1&6 (EL ez esl sel led Led ped bee ote

will 969 £65 bas ees OFe /$e\<F€ Ege AGE SFE age lage ase|éselove| rae leaelege A7ELs9e|9 © dre ead aegis?
kok 9d,

Hereby

--- PAGE 91 of 186 ---

[OCR] L629 285 ehh 1 TH IE of ise. SSE|LSE 9SE/SSL MSEIESE TSE ISS. OSE LMS SHE CHE! MoE | Se! THE] SHE ‘Tee Seg BbS| BL, my

Sik a59 ‘S06 yh £. on, bs ee L827 SHU Hse zt 732; lee ee “pie: BEL caves meer 1 ede | hos Ses is)
SEVEN TES sinh oe Teed 5 new ECE wz Zz. tt bre; Be rear ste are Eo on wea eS fog WS BTW
£1259 SSS oh om bt we ol! ti L9) 99). ro ba at ft y BSI ‘sr ie ial Lip sis PH i
BL 887 965 Ltrh ee Bee wei waar wei LN ¥ Doe, DEG RE | a 195) 1 HbS Say he
EL AE 195 Sth LAL he bre wh el) D9 £65 te a,
SCS BS Bah OE SE REL HTS "TS EH

nT POH Eug RE SiN Ts 1D Hot

oo [Lor es 300 "aS “a CHL Tey FOL

nL IED bES|OSH LI We IL hes, cr he

HL LES Oh (Sh OLE Lez VEL Fe 8 cl xa
Jb -ssgLLaSt abn. 42) ‘Bou REE au Canes: tied

nL 949 “chs ‘Hh TLE, 9°E su at ac ge z ce

ne I 7 Bhs | Ssh aie Fog 932! BL] og?
bk Zh) S4S | OSH SLE LO “eel og

AUK LSS Bio Lb
Si ‘BAL Hex ere TS oh sbhlaas 185 i

{02 9 Se a or Lh ‘ove V9) “ote Loh S85 "989 SbL

ol BRE Sh TEES | ° FF : 7 einaiedy “8 BET: FE BEE 7H Tbh HBF S59 MHL
ec ths [SS LiL] oe bee 3 SEA seh Ser, EPSSF BEN OFI- Thi ey) (8A Shr 8) BST HE, 52H) by cS | 489 SL
SiS SHSTESH BLE SOE OE far 3 i iar Sr at To thr anh "ai a BSE CARH BON BBS) 99TH
L549 bnd og BLOG eel we, Ee, hie co om rie) Bie btre | st) 980 | A RBA: 8S 239 Ibe
SL CHT os] 197 a Oe Sy He] Ee: oct ok ee! Rackad gs adie OBS | 139 91
SL 349 isslagh (Bel zak eee) bie aie 6 a L LS _ Ae Zig TiS ES se nal €/S6E: bEC|OaH Nagy RA! "S| 985 bl
merit Lt ot ck a ene

--- PAGE 92 of 186 ---

[OCR] at

May beans 1998

y Jun Jul

Nov Dec

Feb Mar Apr

86

--- PAGE 93 of 186 ---

[OCR] Vun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

5559 ~

pon 450 -
54° = => 60
450 30°
3dao - w
485° = ®
250

--- PAGE 94 of 186 ---

[OCR] @
©

“ON wO dog tny inp une ABW Ady DW og ep ong

ad WRCT STAC ee |
Osh
o0ss
neeel oe en .

--- PAGE 95 of 186 ---

[OCR] | 00
. Nov beans 1987. . 100

| | thy "rm

of Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug = Sep Oct Nov

89

--- PAGE 96 of 186 ---

[OCR] 9
Cd

ady

sey

qe4

uer

aq

AON

--- PAGE 97 of 186 ---

[OCR] Noy bears 1939

Dec Jan Feb = Mar pr May) Jun Jul, Aus Se
a p

700

ol

--- PAGE 98 of 186 ---

[OCR] Aw ody EN ey ef age AON HQ dag: inp, |_sune

ool
002
00€:
00r

N
>

we i {
f fl | | al i
your
]

,

h

ean
| ih ih |
| y |

!

OOoLZ ; O66F SHAG ANT

--- PAGE 99 of 186 ---

[OCR] Feb

Mar

Aor

May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Nov beans 1990

Sep Oct

Nov .

93

--- PAGE 100 of 186 ---

[OCR] AN QO dag ny = oimp une Ae dy eWay ep ac

ool
002
00€
oor
00S
009
002
008

s
Ss

006!
G00:
ool
002!
00€:

00+
T66} SUI8q AON,

ANG:

--- PAGE 101 of 186 ---

[OCR] . ; ; 00

po

lv Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov

9S

--- PAGE 102 of 186 ---

[OCR] “ONO fas by men PN YPN ede | 990

‘ Ay I ay
lat Myo Wn ;

)
oe

£667 SHBAG AON]

--- PAGE 103 of 186 ---

[OCR] stassessseenesweocestisii sist iteaskcossnteunssramas arsenic aintcmmnitiitnasiareNNNNRCNMEN NNN it nNsN tbe smi ounce ientemmentiitne iat ti

| | : Nov beans 1994

oy Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov

6900
6800
6700
6600
6500
6400
6300
6200
6100
6000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200

97

--- PAGE 104 of 186 ---

[OCR] Dec

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Nov beans 1995

Jul

i boos
\ | i 6700
i

ys

| : : 6300

i 6200
yl nae

I 6000
900

00

Aua Sen Oct Nov

--- PAGE 105 of 186 ---

[OCR] ‘Nov beans 1996

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

poouu
8200
$100
8000
7900
7800
7700
7600
‘7500
7400
7300
7200
7100

99

--- PAGE 106 of 186 ---

[OCR] AN 39O dag Gny inp une | AoW dy ew gaye fag

Q
is)
om,

--- PAGE 107 of 186 ---

[OCR] Jupiter Ingress dates And prices for 1999.

Jupiters degree longitude at ingress is 330 currently.

Febuary 13th it changes to 360/0.The circle begins again.
Jupiter cl es i whi

Jupiter changes degree-on the 18th of Feb these are times to check-and see which
grains are trading at or near longitude price.
Prices from Febuary 13th in 45 degree steps:
50 > Fabbri Suriter 4? in Anete
135

180 shee $45

225

270

315

360

405

450

495

540

585

630

675

720

765

810 4 Enter in Toro

in valka” € & OL te Febbraio ag

7
June 28th Jupiter Ingress changes to 30. { ste +
Changes degree Sth July.Prices are: 45
30

D ( Ih vealkar ed ° |

120 7 lh vette @ do A hLalo DA SQree wel

165 Seno del Toro

210

255

300

345 ~ chars”

390 E gendo fap Ja 6o wo 60

280 les

525 185 099
570 we toe
615

660

705

750

795

840

Jas ssn

--- PAGE 108 of 186 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 109 of 186 ---

[OCR] QB rw

Using the hexagon 1908 price target method with soybeans.
May beans 1989 and 1998, March soybeans 1999.

The hexagon has support and resistance levels at numbers running-on the same line

both sideways and up and down as well as the 1908 count. These are used on intraday
swings as well.

A price can be treated in several ways depending on the volitility. 7500 cents on
soybeans will reduce to 750 or 75. When trading intraday you would use 750 but to get
longer term targets you would use 75.

1908 price target method and soybeans -May be 1989-

High 100.50=100.5
1908 targets 93.5 too close =930
80.5 opposite =805
74 1/2 =745 actual price hit 747

Low 747) -=74.5
1908 targets 81.5
90.5 opposite actual price hit 91.4

Ina wide ranging market the numbers have to be scaled down otherwise there will be
too many targets. 10050 reduces to 100.5.

The first target counting clockwise 100.5 to 93.5 is too close to the current market
action to possibly be called a swing.

805 would have been the low on a intraday basis and held the range for 3 days (not
marked) no entry was triggered of the daily charts.

It then went lower and missed the bottom target. The target was 745 the actual price
hit was 747. Four days later an entry long was triggered.

The entry | use isa break of the 2 days range as recommended by Gann in his swing
trading: means you trail the stop 1cent beond the high/low of the most recent 2
days once you get into a target area. Intraday use 5 minute charts and tight stops if you
are buying and if a double bottom has formed on the 30 minute charts stop and reverse
if this is broken.

The target does not have to be exact as a little short fall or penetration is normal. You
will see what is permitable ftom the examples.

The next thing to do believing that the swing low is in place is to draw up another
hexagon chart with 1908 targets using 747 as the low. I would use either 74.5 or 75 it
is not that important.

The first target of 81.15 was gapped through so that was never a problem.

With 1908 targets resistance becomes support and vice versa so when the market came
back to the 815 level and held this was support and another Bay Was made on the
topside break of the two days range. This took us up to the next 1908 level where we
took profits and reversed.

We now have swing high | and 2.

Gann always projected targets from the first and second high (low) he mentions this in
“How to make profits in stocks and commodities”

SAR

--- PAGE 110 of 186 ---

[OCR] Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar prs Ma’
y

Val

--- PAGE 111 of 186 ---

[OCR] a EFT CT A sees een

aah eal | fe pe 1
bie red oro peter Siewert at jodie |
eer of op is es bor nif cs Ss so dao er oof OAH =.

ALS Sleled :
oes spe tes
aa
aa

acs ane
sg ede eees Boh = aE
ee ee = == ‘cick Nate
Se peers soe
a

Saeronors NEG cali WA relia loin
Brent ee rene

A

6g!\ 59

ee / ie eee alates
pase ae icc

\ 3 *) opd. S dra Nc
6dyh 08109 \ 989, 67: “ B 08
eens
A032 e 6 On 482 253
Ree
Sg QoA 983 BIB 77680 39 sy
x bs ood vet ar0\\ 7d 65 400, 519\ts
| pds spe -oal-pad-29p—d90,44

hire ferent

eee ne
[45 1346) 1347 (348 1349 1450 1351 [1352 1395 ps oe | [ssp es eae ay a eeenee
a Te 1479 1 mi sal lack aud dle TC Be
eh tt

14

--- PAGE 112 of 186 ---

[OCR] High 2 914=91.5 is a price projection from the low so the targets that we had on the
way up will be the same as the ones on the way down. Now we come to the reason I
always recommend taking quick profits on half a position. Choppy markets the death
of tight entry trading. In October there was a bounce off 1908 support and what
looked like a double low. (a+b.)

Soys went slowly higher and ran out of steam then quickly broke the double 1908
support where you stopped out and reversed. (failure of a double support)

Here follows a period of chop but in which you consistantly made small profits. On
half your position and still made the bigger gain as the market went to the 1908 target
(B) from high number 1.

Point C is interesting a 1908 target that held in July and November was broken. You
would always sell this break but note the following price action because it is a reliable
signal to buy again. Soys spent 5 days under this major break out and then went
nowhere.

The day soys closed higher and above the 1908 line you would go long again.

This is what Gann called regaining the angle when using his 45* lines etc.

From the new low 734 work out the 1908 targets again.

This is where you have to make a judgment call. Looking back at the begining of the
chart June,July,August,September there was much more volitility than now and this
has been decreasing steadily. The rally from C has been steady but slow with small
daily ranges and this is why I have used 734 to get the 1908 targets and not 73.4 as I
would have earlier.

Summary.

- 1908 targets are scaled depending on volitility.

- A break of the 2 days range is used for entry.

- Quick profits are taken on 1/2 the position.

- With A failure of a 1908 support resistance after holding the market 2 times the
position is automaticly reversed.

--- PAGE 113 of 186 ---

[OCR] “a ee |

Paley jee aye allele me

See es

bs ea SRE: ee
TSN SIS

sf

- ‘ an eae
i: ie oe ieee cae
=f we Goeeeiness aoe ie Sena
Nef aioied ee CA Leen
ES pain anit bias seed eas ry bey im

SSS ee eee
“Err Se as He

107

--- PAGE 114 of 186 ---

[OCR] Aew ody eWay ep aq AON 90060 dag_—Ss in Ine sune

eS
9
~

0002: : : : t : : : ; : : : : f |
OOLZ: . . SS3YENI . . f . . . . .
00gs
oes:
100) 7 2 : ;

S66F SHDOg Anpy
o0sz 7 . :

--- PAGE 115 of 186 ---

[OCR] HE
FFF

ee

Es |
eats oe a ae,

AT oS es =

fe .
Lise ane |
8 as oe

a Be ae
ae Renae ao Gignenaienl
aoe el / Ge ieee

He
tase
aS
He E >
RS
FEE

' p me af tN a6 iV Hr
18 b Zs Ess ree sr Ti sex aay 7 | oI
S5Z I: E S: 13D haz recor bo

--- PAGE 116 of 186 ---

[OCR] 01/11/99 C=54646 -842 O=-557°0 H=558°6 L=546*4 Mov Avg 3 lines

S26 1908 Target 600
MACD -<.57 -7.63 1.06

RSI 40.53 20.00 80.00

Yolume 36680.00

ee ee ee a ee eee nee o oT

_ Sep _
Name: sb39.gif
Dimensions: 614 x 480 pixels

--- PAGE 117 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: sovs_sdec.gift
Dimensions: 480 x 360 pixels

Examples of the 1908 price target method from recent markets.

- Things to remember with the 1908 price point method.

- Support becomes resistance.

- Big moves come out of big time bases so targets against the trend are usually profit
take points that give you an opportunity to re enter at a better price.

--- PAGE 118 of 186 ---

[OCR] Volume

5 man
12
Name: soys_14 dec.gif
Dimensions: 480 x 360 pixels

Ue Be )

--- PAGE 119 of 186 ---

[OCR] 480 x 360 pixels

v9

--- PAGE 120 of 186 ---

[OCR] 3
oO
r
fo)
w
z
E
Ok
”
o
ie]
2d
Oo
ah
ae
a
2
4:
int
|
77)
2
Sh

Te

Sana

=a ll

ry ‘00 14:00 18:00 00:00 05:00 10:00 15:00 22:00 03:00 08:00 13:00 18:00

22 22 22 23 23 23 25 26 26 26 26

22

sp30m26oct.gif
504 x 288 pixels

Dimensions:

Name:

tte

--- PAGE 121 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name:
Dimensions:

feb oil hrly 10 dec.gif
T30-x 360 pixels

ws

--- PAGE 122 of 186 ---

[OCR] Volume

Name: feb oil 10 dec. aif
Dimensions: 480 x 360 pixels

tte

--- PAGE 123 of 186 ---

[OCR] 12/0/98 C=26244 +*4 O=262°4 H=26340 L=259°0 Mov Avg 3 lines

MACD 5.87 +4.19 -1.68

La pecseeees pespens cf OeCEN Enea. ogee pe een tae eorerTT ld bee.. 66. pc eesgppgueeen dae

RSI 28.01 20.00 80.00

Yolume 2141.00

scons dallbudtiddisttiallts..
Au Se Oct Nov Dec

Name: Gec wheat gif

Dimensions: 614 x 480 pixels

Al7

--- PAGE 124 of 186 ---

[OCR] 1/1199 C=5893 -.0054 O=.5935 H=.5938 L=.5890 Mov Avg 3 lines

r
bee cetttneeseee t
tr s HEED Deca eee Ueeengaagente '
RSI 38.89 20.00 80.00
Yolume 13178.00
so sussssstsesissetnetastsetsseesseee callin tl
Dimensions: Se pixels

--- PAGE 125 of 186 ---

[OCR] Strange clocks.

Time is measured by the 360* circle the earth moves around the Sun. There is nothing
bizarre about the idea of looking at cycles of say 10 days 4 weeks or the 4 year
election cycle etc. If we stretch our imagination a little there is nothing that prevents us
from using the other planets as clocks. You will find that there are tradeable cycles
made by taking the mechanical path of the planets in relation to the earth and using
them to measure time.

There are two ways of tracking the planets. One is heliocentric (earth around the Sun)
and geocentric (the planets as viewed from earth) all the examples that are in this book
are based on the geocentric ephemerides.An emphemerides is a book containing the
position of all planets on any day and what degree longitude they are at in a 360*
circle.

The geocentric view gives some very useful techniques, the first being planets that
appear to go backwards (retrograde) and then forward (direct) this means that they
cover the same degrees several times. W.D.Gann was a great believer in this as a
timing too! and my own researches support this. He believed that planetary
conjunctions (planets that are at the same degree longitude of a 360* circle) and
planetary oppositions could cause turns in the market and when one of the planets
went retrograde it would catch up with the other planet again forming another
conjunction. This process could cause double and triple bottoms and tops.The spot
Dmk chart showing the U.S. dollar low in 1995 is a perfect example of this.

I’ve developed a couple of simple techniques to use retrograde/direct planets and a few
examples will make them clear.

A'9

--- PAGE 126 of 186 ---

[OCR] Jupiter head and shoulders.

I was looking for the next time cycle of Jupiter on the Dow.] thought is was possible that a head
and shoulders would form.I had the Jupiter position for the left shoulder and the head so I wanted
to know when the right shoulder would complete.

The Dow had formed a left shoulder in the later period of Jupiter going retrograde at 21*
Aquarius. The head was made on August 7th 1997 this was 7 days after Jupiter changed degree
to18* Aquarius.

21*-18*=3*+7days.

Jupiter would be retrograde until November so the next proportionate point would be made when
Jupiter was at 15* Aquarius

21-18=3* difference

18-15=3* difference

The high was made 7days from Jupiter being at 18* so the target date was Jupiter at 15* plus 7
days.

25August+7days is September Ist .This date was a low so it completed the right shoulder
scenario.I was still looking for a 2nd top. I then took 3* from 15*=12*+7days.

Jupiter was at 12* on the 30th of September.Then adding 7 days (counting September 30th as 1)
The target date was October 6th. The actual high was October 7th.

To summarise.

Shoulder Jupiter 21*.

Head Jupiter 18* +7 days August 7th.

Shoulder Jupiter 15*+7 days September 1st.

S+P top secondary high dow Jupiter 12* +7days.
Target October 6th.

Actual top October 7th.

120

--- PAGE 127 of 186 ---

[OCR] PPIneUs

|

al”

Jupiter Head and Shoulders.jpg

1008 x 1190 pixels

Name:

Dimensions:

12)

--- PAGE 128 of 186 ---

[OCR] 1 + meer Elec | Tr r T 340.0

dt t 338.0
+i i 7 f tT J T +444 t 330.0
+ t- 4 Tere + 325.0

| Lt aa | 320.0
7 i t ttij it | 4 tt +4 FH 1 ~} 315.0
i ft a {uty a fen 310.0
he i |

{ ERIE TCT Ff tL " PA 305.0
| | f | it ‘at tT i + ft i Ltt 300.0
4 ue i—t [ } ni a +f JH 295.0
a Fy id ++ ml a } i 290.0

al
_ t - i+ eal the 285.0
+t jt ‘il + it baie eine 1 280.0
{14 4 3h 350" | - 275.0
crn t idery | 300000

1
T
:
{

\ | 350.0
aa os ie a + if + | 345.0
a

3 250000
200000

150000

rebhicten| 100000

il oo

I
Wau

| il li ikl hil ill “il uli tl i Hh lil 0

D97 J98 F98 M98 A98 M98 J98 J98

ill

122

--- PAGE 129 of 186 ---

[OCR] FEB OMAR APR MAY JUN JUL

Name: bpz9.gif

Dimensions: 570 x 265 pixels
Retrograde/Direct cycles.

A once only cycle is produced by a planet going from direct to retrograde and then back to direct.
This planetary motion can effect any market so the best way to utilise this method is to simply
look for any market where a peak or trough was made as the planets turned retrograde . A cycle
will be due when the planets go direct. This may be a high or low or a breakout of a range.

of

ZF IDE
2El
92

17% nnn

ot

--- PAGE 130 of 186 ---

[OCR] { ‘ ~ 7
YW rrRasany & 2bouO ce (@ Suey Qi00Ng buIsA paiund rf £1 sae ee ee.

ry in aw aL Pe, a ne Oe GN os woke a ‘ ae
~ | ; . a er] Word obey teed \ x

Ht

|
froperg wens sb 4 pre pra sv06 ‘at AY Ni
M wn Nl /

Je

-

7
4 —- ab

‘ Fa

“NA €S8S"1=1 SSID L=H O26S'1=O O6L0'+ OLIDL=O Zé/ezreo AVEQ-LxL' dG

2/80 ae  XLdaD) 96/SO/r

--- PAGE 131 of 186 ---

[OCR] BE

2 psro23 oo (DEM.TXT) oe |
if DEW TXT Wasuy ONGOT Gai 7425 0190. OAT 7655 HCA TOAR LAI Taaa VB ae
‘ il fl My | ee ee

: | in ihe —_ ae thy

ar i Mh
f i Ma
| |

eo, I!
ae oye \ i My

Tl
3 a fh wl \l |
‘ Do a
| yt Bes
ae ‘we A
a eee a a
' [ Lt bate es a Bose: 7)

--- PAGE 132 of 186 ---

[OCR] e Retro day Corruction ands,

. H

i

ot the Wigh |

deg~e ages 5 18000

Jul

Oct Jan
1991

Oct Jan Apr Jul Apr
1988

--- PAGE 133 of 186 ---

[OCR] 1M a aa

preeeeererers ri A 7
| k
| Wi : ‘hi My \oeoe A | MH, ",

a paras ® Fach time a
at when “oles meae'k te fiat low would be a cycle fo See
happened ne ilar made a final low and panes uch higher.

--- PAGE 134 of 186 ---

[OCR] LOO dds OY CHI ON AVA OHdY OMY dd ON | Od

--- PAGE 135 of 186 ---

[OCR] 7
A

\

August 26th 1998.

Sun trine Saturn 0*

Saturn square

‘Using the hexagon chart again we look for any price target in the area the S+P is

trading and the target is 1112.50. Saturn is the pivotal et in the trine and the

‘square. Also because it is the Sun making a trine we can convert the Sun into longitude
e 153* and add numbers in 45* steps to get a price target.

If the market is rising we are looking to sell if it is falling we are looking to buy.

The longitude degree is 1098 so we have 2 targets 1112.50 and 1098.

Here are the price levels for September futures.

August 24th 1098.75 1080.50

August 25th 1111.00 1088.25

August 26th 1096.50 1077.50

As you see the price targets were hit on the 25th one day before the exact trine and the

market slid 176 PTS over six days. If was a safe sell but a trendline break or a

breakout of the 2 days range is good when you want confirmation.

--- PAGE 136 of 186 ---

[OCR] Z

Ake

ppicee atm cei ce iz, a |
ieaaee pio she CEERaSCEEEG® pens

poh seeee a of oe tel page
BS Coe a

Peps

2 oe Se
es ae

ce

ee none
ad ane

le

raris lapis

IS Os ek ee ee
aera Sea eer h [eens 4
aaom

oe

i

oe =

See ae = |
BARA a oe Ss

--- PAGE 137 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: aug 26 sun trine saturn b.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

bak

u

Name: Clos]
Dimensions: 1039 x 1419 pixels

--- PAGE 138 of 186 ---

[OCR] + ArkoMait sd chat dh [acy ci 8G ous tite vataen |

Name: aug 26 sun trine saturn.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: d.jpg
Dimensions: 1039 x 1419 pixels

rem

--- PAGE 139 of 186 ---

[OCR] ( Jupiter clock and the September 23rd high.

‘ When Jupiter is retrograde or has just turned direct again I always look for time cycles.
_ At the July 20th high Jupiter was at 28* pisces. At the low of September Ist Jupiter
was at 25* Pisces. It had changed to 25* on the 3 ust so counting the 31st

:| and the Ist was 2 days. Jupiter 28*-3*=25*-3*=22*
| The next cycle would be 25*-3*+2 days Jupiter would change to 22* Pisces on the

23rd of September plus 2 days marking the f September

area.

The price target using the 1908 formula was 1182 from the September ist low of 936.
The price was missed by 2 points and declined into the 25th which may have been a
cycle low day. In these cases you have to use your judgement whether to hold or fold
but you have to enter on a breakout of the range one way or another.

The next pages show the intraday price action at the top it was very quiet and this is
the sort of safe trade you can make by trading at the price target with a small stop.
The chart of Jupiter clock shows the excellent call on the September 23rd top Notice
though at (4) the next clock cycle held the market for 8 days and then got blown out.
That is why everyone must trade with stops that are as small as possible. It is
interesting to note that there were no 1908 price targets at (4).

--- PAGE 140 of 186 ---

[OCR] [ad 2
i MIN S&P 500 INDEX DEC 1996 _. $0 minute OHLC

bot

17 900
DB:S0 18:30 18:80 28:30 04:30 0S:S0 14:30 19.80 00:30 05:30 10:30 15:30
2s 283 238 28 24 24 24 24 2 28 25 25

Segt 23 Tupiter clock

Name: sp30sep25.gif
Dimensions: 504 x 288 pixels

ial

--- PAGE 141 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: s=p 20 july.98.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: b.jpg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1419 pixels

--- PAGE 142 of 186 ---

[OCR] oe

Heer

ES
ba

APSog RES ua eg fe an fre fv oa an pie pe

6

| aan

on

PATA WA ,
f\
ot \ 199

:

lade es Seek |

Guesee: aseaccun Fe
Geers seamen fi

os
ots as

7g u ——

See |
Sake
Cos
SERN aos
Malai Seege

ae
Sats

ee eceee
ELEN aR Ut eo

--- PAGE 143 of 186 ---

[OCR] Xxtd ¢9z x 0LG :suoTsUeUT

JD oToAD U SunCuod uoom yatm syx009g ~S°A : OUeN

100 das  »9n¥ . AUN Hd¥ HUM aaa Nor | oga-

--- PAGE 144 of 186 ---

[OCR] as Hed asf ocho HR
SCARS: pod

Fa eae at
‘\ NW) Woy

’ 170/86.
Af he shoe
AVACAWANA NP HUA SL
Oo 676) 3,508 ver 40, 49 e 7 R23
oek 97: 67 65\302 \24: ‘
a 973\870 7€\S91N 510\ 4x4 b
2 s7d er 679\sa2\511\ 430\367\$0 94
1328\2ghyoaa\ af Agr2 o\b93\ 512 6a\sos\ 240 Bf 62
420 ar. 594 513) b69 9 the | se ng x
obd 74 Sia\ 43—\ 370\ A 250 fa] 155 146 197] tha 159 [reo ¢
2ci 202 of 20

Se ee eee

Diagram 13-8 The hexagon chart.
Majer low Dee Mth (9126 Page LO4 “Hom to make
at‘ {250 Prof ts ws Stocks and Comme

mape Hegh Hho Bb Sept 1417

--- PAGE 145 of 186 ---

[OCR] points and some good short term swings around the time of an eclipse but I can find no evidence
that they were a factor in any of these Gann trades except by chance or if they were they are not
necessary to solving them.

As I understand it he felt that eclipses were important and I wonder if he used them to make his
annual forecasts.In traditional astrology an eclipse at any point was assigned a meaning such as
forecasting a war,drought, panic etc. This would be easy enough to check if we had all of his
annual forecasts.

Robert Gordons great campaign in cotton.

These are some of the Cotton trades from “Tunnel Thru The Air.”

First we will look at the high as it relates to the low.

Price targets first. A major low of 1250 (125) on the 4th of December 1926. Using the hexagon
chart the high on the 8th of September 1927 was 2440 (244) and exactly opposite the low.

The Astrology at the low on 4th of December 1926 was conjunct Mercury/Saturn 4* of orb, trine
Uranus and Saturn/Mercury square Neptune.

The Mercury trine Uranus aspect was the closest at the bottom so the next planet moving
clockwise is Mars so this should feature in the high which it does.At the high

Mars is opposite the Uranus/Jupiter conjunction which is trine Saturn.

Now we’ll kick off with the Robert Gordon trades from June 25th through to the predicted high
on September 6th.

Ez

--- PAGE 146 of 186 ---

[OCR] oo

We have requested Mr.Gann to figure out for the readers of The Ticker a few of the
most striking indications which appear in his calculations. In presenting these we wish
it understood that no man, in or out of Wall Street, is infallible.

Mr.Gann’s figures at present indicate that the trend of the stock market should, barring
the usual rallies, be toward lower prices until March or April, 1910.

He calculates that May wheat, which is now selling at $1.02, should not sell below 99
cents, and should sell at $1.45 next spring.

On cotton, which is now at about the 15 cents level, he estimates that, after a good
reaction from these prices, the commodity should reach 18 cents in the spring of 1910.
He looks for a corner in the March or May option.

Whether these figures prove correct or not, will in no sense detract from the record
which Mr. Gann has already established.

Mr.Gann was born in Lufkin, Texas, and is thirty-one years of age. He is a gifted
mathematician, has an extraordinary memory for figures, and is an expert Tape Reader.
Take away his science and he would beat the market on his intuitive tape reading
alone.

Endowed as he is with such qualities, we have no hesitation in predicting that within a
comparatively few years William D.Gann will receive full recognition as one of Wall
Street’s leading operators.

Note:-Since the above forecast was made, Cotton has suffered the expected decline,

the extreme break having been 120 points. The lowest on May wheat thus far has been
$ 1.01-5/8. It is now selling at $ 1.06 1/4.

164 .

--- PAGE 147 of 186 ---

[OCR] “After years of patient study I have proven to my entire satisfaction as well as
demonstrated to others that vibration explains every possible phase and condition of
the market.”

In order to substantiate Mr.Gann’s claims as to what he has been able to do under this
method, we called upon Mr. William E. Gilley, an Inspector of imports, 16 Beaver
Street, New York. Mr.Gilley is well-known in the downtown district. He himself has
studied stock market movements for twenty-five years, during which time he has
examined every piece of market literature that has been issued and procurable in Wall
Street. It was he who encouraged Mr.Gann to study out the scientific and
mathematical possibilities of the subject. When asked what had been the most
impressive of Mr. Gann’s work and predictions , he replied as follows:

“It is very difficult for me to remember all the predictions and operations of Mr.Gann
which may be classed as phenomenal, but the following are a few: In 1908 when Union
Pacific was 168-1/8, he told me that it would not touch 169 before it had a good
break. We sold it short all the way down to 152-5/8, covering on the weak spots and
putting it out again on the rallys, securing twenty-three points profit out of an
eighteen-point wave.

“He came to me when United States Steel was selling around 50 and said ‘This Steel
will run up to 58 but it will not sell at 59. From there it should break 16 3/4 points.’
We sold it short around 58 3/4 with a stop at 59. The highest it went was 58 3/4. From
there it declined to 41 1/4 -17 1/2 points.

“At another time wheat was selling at about 89 cents. He predicted that the May
option would sell at $1.35.We bought it and made large profits on the way up. It
actually touched $1.35 1/2.

“When Union Pacific was 172, he said it would go to 184-7/8 but not an eighth higher
until it had had a good break. It went to 184-7/8 and came back from there eight or
nine times. We sold it short repeatedly with a stop at 185 and were never caught. It
eventually came back to 172 1/2.

“Mr.Gann’s calculations are based on natural law. I have followed his work closely for
years. I know that he has a firm grasp of the basic principles which govern stock
market movements, and I do not believe any other man on earth can duplicate the idea
or his method at the present time.

“Early this year he figured that the top of the advance would fall on a certain day in
August and calculated the prices at which the Dow-Jones averages would then stand.
The market culminated on the exact day and within four-tenths of one percent of the
figures predicted.”

“You and Mr.Gann must have cleaned up considerable money on all these operations,”
was suggested.

--- PAGE 148 of 186 ---

[OCR] movements. I then decided to devote ten years of my life to the study of natural law as
applicable to the speculative markets and to devote my best energies toward making
speculation a profession. After exhaustive researches and investigations of the known
sciences, I discovered that the Law of Vibration enabled me to accurately determine
the exact points to which stocks or commodities should rise and fall within a given
time. The working out of this law determines the cause and predicts the effect long
before the Street is aware of either. Most speculators can testify to the fact that it is
looking at the effect and ignoring the cause that has produced their losses.

“Wt is impossible here to give an adequate idea of the Law of Vibration as J apply it to
the market, however, the layman may be able to grasp some of the principles when I
state that the Law of Vibration is the fundamental law upon which wireless telegraphy,
wireless telephone and phonographs are based. Without the existence of this law the
above inventions would have been impossible.

“In order to test out the efficiency of my idea I have not only put in years of labor in
the regular way, but I spent nine months working night and day in the Astor Library of
New York and in the British Museum of London, going over the records of stock
transactions as far back as 1820. I have incidentally examined the manipulations of Jay
Gould Drew Commodore Vanderbilt, and all the other important Wall Street
manipulators from that time to the present day. I have examined every quotation of
Union Pacific prior to and from the time of E.H. Harriman’s securing control, and can
say that of al] the manipulations in the history of Wall Street, Mr.Harriman’s was the
most masterly. The figures show that, whether unconsciously or not, Mr. Harriman
worked strictly in accordance with natural law.

“In going over the history of markets and the great mass of related statistics, it soon

becomes apparent that certain laws govern the changes and variations in the value of (4/4 ma)
stocks and there exists a periodic or cyclic law, which is at the back of all theseEcL, pce eyeke
movements. Observation has shown that there are regular periods of intense activity on

the Exchange followed by periods of inactivity. Mr.Henry Hall, in his recent book

devoted much space to “Cycies of Prosperity and Depression” which he found

recurring at regular intervals of time. The law which I have applied will not only give

these long cycles or swings, but the daily and even hourly movements of stocks. By

knowing the exact vibration of each individual stock I am able to determine at what

point each will receive support and at what point the greatest resistance is to be met.

Those in close touch with the market have market have noticed the phenomena of ebb
and flow, or rise and fall in the value of stocks. At certain times a stock will become
intensely active, large transactions being made in it, at other times this same stock will
become practically stationary or inactive with a very small volume of sales.I have
found that the Law of Vibration governs and controls these conditions. I have also
found that certain phases of this law governs the rise in a stock and an entirely different
rule operates on the decline.

“While Union Pacific and other railroad stocks which made their high prices in August
were declining, United States Steel common was steadily advancing. The Law of
Vibration was at work, sending a particular stock on the upward trend, whilst others
were trending downward.

cn

--- PAGE 149 of 186 ---

[OCR] ( The W.D.Gann Astrological method. .

A trine must be present: ;
e the trine will either have a conjunction at one end (*22)- 4) —_—
¢ or at the midpoint/apex eg. do
Bor within the 120* arc of the trine a
or the trine can be linked by a square (a4 3)
or an opposition to another conjunction (1 planet is part of both the square and the
trine) but a conjunction does not have to be present if ‘Most aspects are balanced ie.the

degree of separation of the aspects is the same.
Or planets make aspect at price on the hexagon chart.

14a

--- PAGE 150 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name: s+p low oct 8 1998.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

Name: f.jpg
Dimensions: 1054 x 1419 pixels

aw - - - etna

--- PAGE 151 of 186 ---

[OCR] on B isla of. NX a ho
7 = = ae eg

——— eeced eice eka :
Oo |

| a

ee

ea nae
a ne

oo.
i im ei ceo

r= > o/h

Boaenieeg: ge ceeees amy
veh ee
Soe eeslestelee pete eC y THE

i = =ooe Seanad tee +4 :

Soecaanae

--- PAGE 152 of 186 ---

[OCR] 7

June 10th 1927.

June 10,1927
Sold Oct cotton at 17.30
Sold Dec cotton at 17.50

This is a fantastic set up and contains the elements that we have been looking at.

A grand trine with a conjunction at not onepoint but two just to hammer home the
point.

Saturn trine Jupiter conjunct Uranus 2*

Saturn trine Venus conjunct Mars 0*

Sautrn trine Uranus 0*

Venus trine Uranus 0*

Mars trine Uranus 0*

Sun trine Moon with Venus conjunct Mars within the trine.
Venus and Mars which are part of the grand trine are also Square Moon.

--- PAGE 153 of 186 ---

[OCR] Diagram 13-8 The hexagon chart.

Yuna joth tALT Sold at 17°30 act ad 172 -sO Dee
The. (908 Tash From Heth Dec 1IZO was ITO
(rex Ota) ee

--- PAGE 154 of 186 ---

[OCR] WDIHANSWNH

w
fo}

11:
12:
13:

Sun

Sun
Moon
Moon
Jupiter
Moon
Jupiter
Saturn
Mercury
Mercury
Mercury
Venus
Venus

(Can)
(Can)
(Tau)
(Tau)
(Ari)
(Tau)
(Ari)
[Sag]
(Can)
(Can)
(Can)
(Leo)
(Leo)

Squ
Squ
Sex
Squ
con
Squ
Tri
Tri
Tri
Tri
Tri
Con
Con

(Ari)
(Ari)
(Can)
(Leo)
(Ari)
(Leo)
{Sag]
(Ari)
(Ari)
(Sag)
(Ari)
(Leo)
(Leo)

Uranus
Jupiter
Pluto
Venus
Uranus
Mars
Saturn
Uranus
Jupiter
Saturn
Uranus
Neptune
Mars

bprarrrrrprarrtrore

orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:

-0:18°
+0:50°
-0:11'
+2:57"
+1:08°
~3:40°
-0:06'
+1:01°
-4:20°
+4:27°
-5:29°
+6:34"
+6:38'

Pry yyy eg yvureyeud

power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:

15.40
14.33
10.22

8.84
8.38
7.58
5.91
$.13
2.29
2.19
1.30
0.62
0.52

ECHL ae rereprres |

fe

HET

PHEKIRAWAIO OOHSKANAE Ha

--- PAGE 155 of 186 ---

[OCR] Jl

July 25th 1927.
Sold 500 October cotton at 19.00
Sold 500 December at 19.20
Went short 500 December at 19.20.
Decline followed as he expected.

As usual the first step is to look for the trines

Sun trine Saturn 0*

Sun trine Jupiter Uranus 1*

So here we have another grand trine with the Sun acting as the trigger this time
Saturn is square Mars 0*

The high price of 19.20 (192) is exactly opposite the June 25th low of 16.80 (168)
The reality of the 1908 targets is that they shift from 8 places to opposite and back
otherwise prices would be forever just oscillating back and forth.

--- PAGE 156 of 186 ---

[OCR] Wa eee EN
ia
oy » 3 aE

Pa) a Fak alg
3158. J
‘elHe eta Ele ere
En Ed Ea
z siete eta leg 3 eit

7 o
kK

SH
:

g
be
z
2:
¢

z

)» S69
4 i
43° 34
ede wey fee
4 . 2
dS 102 fie tol 4
i thy i397 We 1397) Use 4
184 v8 fico 1
) 8
296/233 han a
1/agib q 23
b aseyea fod ‘
bed
ae

A
ety

Diagram 13-8 The hexagon chart.

July 2Sth Sold at 19 26)

62

|

Lew

--- PAGE 157 of 186 ---

[OCR] h
OWOVRDUAWNE

PH
Ne

13:

Jupiter
Moon
Moon
Moon
Saturn
Jupiter
Mercury
Neptune
Saturn
Moon
Venus
Mars

Mercury

(Ari]
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Sag)
[Ari]
(Can)
(Leo)
(Sag)
(Sco)
(Vir)
(Vir)
(Can)

Con
Sex
Tri
Squ
Tri
Tri
Sex
Sex
Squ
Tri
Sex
Squ
Tri

(Ari)
(Vir)
(Can)
{Leo)
(Ari)
(Sag)
(Vir)
[Gem]
(Leo)
(Can)
(Can)
(Sag)
(Sag)

Uranus
Venus
Mercury
Neptune
Uranus
Saturn
Venus
Node
Neptune
Pluto
Pluto
Saturn
Saturn

petartars

orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:

- orb:

+0:07'
+0:S6°
-1:43'
-3:35°
+2:05°
+2:13"
-2:39°
+0:44°
+4:49°
+6:24'
+5:28'
-6:40'
+6:42°

~m*

tetetrtrtetrar

power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:

9.83
9.10
8.25
7.73
4.21
4.10
3.35
2.85
2.50
2.10
0.53
0.38
0.26

Sat August
73°0GH 4@*

dullan Day

lst house:
2nd house
3ed house
4th house
Sth house
Sth house

Hn

Safe 33393

8

é

2

ew

a

by
*treorovid

-
=
#

Nept:
Plut: 186.1685 - 1°e8
Node: 85.451R + 8°80’

Fire: &, Eorth: 2,

3
8, 1827

18'38on (COT ~6'88 GMT)

‘4SN

Plocidus houses.
Tropical, Geocantric.

= 2426899. 1897

188.438
216.131
245.988
279.778
313.216

8

iJ

=
DAEKILAWAIO BOOHACKRSXED

a ug bth 1927

scsomaeanesnere it:

--- PAGE 158 of 186 ---

[OCR] hahsostt J os ey0-6sp 439 «4 qs7 ese fas 4 pt 0 4 8.7
afigleg/an oooh ow apo (
AT ad A oe on i a

D 4 y 416 fe 4e4 4p att

a wl tm tt

Diagram 13-8 The hexagon chart.

1206 Hah dhe ideot forget Would bx.
ITSO yat te lew was 17-38

--- PAGE 159 of 186 ---

[OCR] August 9th 1927.

Sold out his 1500 December at 20.30
and sold 1000 December short at 20.30.
A big decline followed.

The Moon is often the crucial part of Ganns trades because it acts as the timer by
creating the important aspects to the slow moving planets.

Here the Moon is trine Neptune (3*) and square the Jupiter Uranus conjunction(2*).
A one degree separation of aspects on a fast moving body like the Moon is
insignificant so I would say this is also a good balance.

Already this gives us a good trine plus conjunction and square but the Moon sets up
anothet ‘good pattern.

Moon trine Neptune 3*

Neptune square Saturn 4*

--- PAGE 160 of 186 ---

[OCR] orb: +0:03'
orb: +2:54'
orb: +2:57'

Jupiter [Ari] Con [Ari] Uranus
Moon (Cap) Squ {Ari} Uranus
Moon (Cap) Squ [Ari] Jupiter
Moon (Cap) Tri (Leo) Neptune

Saturn (Sag) Tri [Ari] Uranus

Jupiter [Ari] Tri (Sag) Saturn

Saturn (Sag) Squ (Leo) Neptune
Mercury (Can) Tri (Sag) Saturn
Neptune (Leo) Sex [Gem) Node

orb: +2:00' power: 4.29
orb: +2:03' power: 4.24
orb: +4:43' power: 2.61
orb: +4:01" - power: 2.56

orb: +1:00' - power: 2.25

CWDIAUSLWNH

1 Mercury (Can) Sex (Vir) Venus - orb: -4:07' - power: 1.88
li: Moon (Cap) Squ (Vir) Venus - orb: +7:14* - power: 1.34
12: Mercury (Can) Tri [Ari] Uranus - orb: -6:01' - power: .0.84
13: Mercury (Can) Tri [Ari] Jupiter - orb: -6:05' -— power: 0.79

oma

- power: 9.93 Aug Ath 1427
- power: 8.93
- power: 8.84
orb: +3:49' - power: 5.49

18:38an (OT ~6:8@ GMT
73°OQU 48‘4EN
Placitdus houses.
Trapiaal, Geacentric.
Jullan Dey = 2425162.1_

ligt house: 198.788
2nd house! 217.644
3ed house: 246.623
“th house! 262.518
Sth house: 316.825
Sth house’ 345.711
7th house: 18.768
Bth house! 37.644
Sth house: 68.623
16th house 12.616
11th house: 136.825
12th house: 165.711
Sun: 136.082 + 6°82
Moon! 278,137 - 8°17
Merc: 117.811 - 1°18°
Venu: 172.891 - 3°52’
Mors: + is
te -

Baru: + 162
Uran: - pee
Nept: +*@ *
Plut: - 1°@8’
Node! + @°8@

--- PAGE 161 of 186 ---

[OCR] ATER eacat at
“FEWER ERT

TRIER ERS EN SR

SNES

Diagram 13-8 The hexagon chart.

Thay at (735

Su ot LODE

--- PAGE 162 of 186 ---

[OCR] August 13th 1927.

August 13,1927
Bought 1000 December cotton at 19.10
and bought 1000 December at 19.10 for long
He started in to pyramid on the way up.

The grand trine is back and activated by Mercury.Mercury is trine 0* Jupiter/Uranus
conjunct.

Uranus/Jupiter are trine Saturn 4* and Saturn is square the Moon 5*

At the low in 1926 part of the set up was Mercury trine Uranus 0* and here it is again
ina strong setting.

The Moon is opposite Neptune 0*

The Moon is also trine the node 0*

and Venus is square the node 0*

This is the situation re price targets Gann said he bought at 19.10. If you use the
hexagon chart the conjunction of Jupiter and Uranus gives a target of 19.30.

There are no other hexagon targets but the timing is exellent today and this always
takes precedence over price.

ee

=

--- PAGE 163 of 186 ---

[OCR] ”
DOBIARNDWNY

aed
Ne

13:
14:
15:

Moon
Jupiter
Sun
Moon
Mercury
Mercury
Mercury
Jupiter
Saturn
Moon
Sun

Venus:

Saturn
Mars
Neptune

{Aqu)
(Ari)
(Leo)
(Aqu)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Ari)
(Sag)
(Aqu)
(Leo)
(Vir)
(Sag)
(Vir)
{Leo)

Opp
Con
Opp
Tri
Tri
Tri
Tri
Tri
Tri
Squ
Con
Squ
Squ
Sex
Sex

(Leo)
(Ari)
(Aqu)
(Gem}
{Ari}
(Sag)
(Ari)
(Sag)
{Ari}
(Sag)
(Leo)
{Gem}
(Leo)
(Can)
{Gem}

Neptune
Uranus
Moon
Node
Jupiter
Saturn
Uranus
Saturn
Uranus
Saturn
Neptune
Node
Neptune
Pluto
Node

orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:

Ploaidus houses.
Teopieal, Beooantr ia.
dullen Cay = 2425166. 1897

PEEKIKAWAVIO BOOKASKUISDP

Fire:
flr: 2, Water: 1
Cor: 3, Fine 4, Mut 4

8, Yims 3
m9, Nu 4, A: 7, De 4
fing’ 2, Suo> &, Cod 4
$3. Shore: 2

-0:58°
+0:04°
~5:38'
-0:24'
~0:53'
~0:S4'
~0:57'
+1247"
+1:52°
-5:35'
+6:36'
~0:57°
+4:37'
-4:14°
+1:22'

power: 12.31

power: 9.90
power: 8.23
power: 7.80
power: 5.24
power: 5.23
power: $.19
power: 4.47
- power: -40

4

power: 4.23
power: 3.50
power: 3.15

power: 2.72
power: 1.77
power: 1.42

--- PAGE 164 of 186 ---

[OCR] kettle
i
TT.

ES

aE

SHERERE
Le} =] el
Fats

gee
yes

SEREELL

gece
Bs
Se
Bee
; Ky &
au

Sas ENE

1 300 1361 ‘
Wa (479 140d 146) 14d b A 5 fad # Theo |iagn 0p vets abate pyr — | ---3-—
:
: i SEN
abe LL EP

Diagram 13-8 The hexagon chart.

Yy PS oS Target 145 actual 19]

--- PAGE 165 of 186 ---

[OCR] WDIDUNSDWNH

»
fo}

ll:
12:
13:
14:
aye
16:

Sun
Jupiter
Sun
Mercury
Mercury
Saturn
Sun
Jupiter
Mars
Sun
Moon
Venus
Saturn
Mars
Mars
Moon

(Vir)
{Ari]
(Vir)
(Vir)
(Vir)
(Sag)
(Vir)
{Ari]
(Vir)
(Vir)
(Cap)
(VirJ
(Sag)
(Vir)
(Vir)
(Cap)

con
Con
Tri
Con
Sex
Tri
Sex
Tri
Opp
con
Squ
Sex
Squ
Opp
Sex
Squ

(vir)
{Ari]
(Cap)
[Vir]
(Can)
(Ari]
(Can)
(Sag)
(Ari]
{Vir}
{Ari}
(Can)
(Leo)
{Ari}
(Sag)
[Ari]

Mercury
Uranus
Moon
venus
Pluto
Uranus
Pluto
Saturn
Jupiter
Venus
Uranus
Pluto
Neptune
Uranus
Saturn
Jupiter

orb:
orb:
orb:

- orb:

orb:

~- orb:

orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:

- orb:

orb:

+3:40°
+1:36°
-4:51"
+2:50°
~0:07"
+0:20°
-3:48'
71:15"
-3:08'
+6:31°
-5:57'
+2:42°
+4:29°
-4:44"
+4:24°
-7:34"'

soo

power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:
power:

10.83

7.71
7.61
5.95
5.88
5.71
5.49
4.93
4.42
3.71
3.59
3.30
2.88
2.59
1.60
0.76

ist

18th
1ith
12th

iS cpt 6

Sun: 13Vir@a + 8°89’
Moon: 8 ate
Merc: 16Vir41 + 131°
Venu: 19Vir3IR - 8°35’
Mors: 27Vir26 + O°4B"
dupi:  Bari34R - 1°35’
Satu: 1Sag58 + 1°45’
Uran: 2Ari18R - 8°46"
Nept: 27Leo2@ + 8°28'

16Can48 - 1°87"

18°380m (CDT -5:88 GMT
73°0@M 48°4SN

Placidus houses.
Tropical, Geocentric.
Julian Day = 2425136. 1897

house: 2Sco31
house: @8Sag55
house: 3Cap3s

+ BAQUIS
house: 11PisS1
house: SAr iN

house: 2Tou31
house: 8GenSS
house: 3Can3S
house: SLeo'té
house: 11VirS1
house: SLIbNGS

PSPEKHMAWCIO Pf FOQHASKRAS

192.9

--- PAGE 166 of 186 ---

[OCR] |
|
i
!
t

September 6th 1927.

This is the date Gann forecast for a top.As shown earlier the price target form the 1926 low of
125 was exactly opposite on the hexagon chart at 244 and this was the high.

The trines.Saturn trine Uranus 0* and Saturn trine Jupiter 1* which is conjunct Uranus 1* Mars is
in opposition to Jupiter.

The Moon is very interesting here it is trine the Sun 4* trine Mercury 7* opposite Pluto 7*
Square Uranus 7* (balanced aspects) thus creating another Gann set-up to the Uranus Jupiter
conjunction.

September 23rd 1927.

The Jupiter /Uranus combination has given us the high. The next major planet is Pluto.

A major reversal such as the early September high is not followed by another for months in any
market.

All the swing turns from here that Gann predicts are based on the next aspects to Pluto (they
don’t involve a trine) in this case they are squares. This is defiantly an idea worth looking at
further in real time because we can always see the next planet that will have a major influence on
the next turn so it is easy enough to plot the days when this planet will have square aspects before
the next trine.These days should be swing days.

On September 23rd Mercury is exactly square Pluto.

The next low is the 6th of October when Mars is exactly square Pluto.

Predicting which planet will be involved in the next high or low.

From the few complete sequences of trades that we have it would appear that the planet that will
feature in the next set up is the next in line at the time of the set up. Like a clock going from one
marker to the next. This sequence ends when there is a grand cross. The reason I think this is that
in “Tunnel thru the air” he calls October 3rd 1931 as the great market low which it was for 5
weeks. This was a very good grand cross.

Over his career he had a lot of more accurate calls than this yet he makes note of it again in the
form of a telegram from the man who featured in the ticker interview (Mr. W.E.Gilley).

When you consider it a grand cross is a good place to finish the clock like sequence.

As an example of the clock like idea refer back to the July 20th 1998 high on the S+P (Sun trine
Jupiter) and see the next planet is Saturn.At the October 8th low it was Saturn trine Mars.

--- PAGE 167 of 186 ---

[OCR] NNER RR PR He ee

(aN

Ne

QO:
i:

Sun

Sun
Moon
Sun
Jupiter
Moon
Uranus
Sun
Moon
Mars
Mercury
Mars
Venus
Jupiter
Mercury
Moon
Mercury
Sun
Uranus
Jupiter
Mercury

(Sag)
(Sag)
(Leo)
(Sag)
(Sco)
(Leo)
(Cap)
(Sag)
{Leo)
(Leo)
(Sco)
(Leo)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Leo)
(Sco)
(Sag)
(Cap)
(Sco)
(Sco)

Tri
Con
Squ
Con
con
Tri
con
Squ
Tri
Squ
Sex
Squ
Tri
Sex
Squ
Opp
Sex
Squ
Sex
Sex
con

(Leo)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Cap)
(Pis)
(Sco)
(Sco)
(Cap)
(Sco)
(Pis)
(Cap)
(Leo)
(Cap)
(Cap)
(Leo)
(Sco)
(Cap)
(Sco)

Moon
Pluto
Venus
Jupiter
Pluto
Pluto
Neptune
Saturn
Jupiter
Jupiter
Neptune
Pluto
Saturn
Uranus
Mars
Uranus
Uranus
Mars
Pluto
Neptune
Jupiter

orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb: -3:42'
orb: +2:19'
orb: +1:34'
orb: +3:53'
orb: +3:22'
orb: ~3:00°
orb: ~4:27'
orb: -6:42'
orb: +3:47'
orb: +6:56'
orb: -4:34'
orb: -$:13°
orb: +6:47'

179

power: 14.88
power: 12.42
power: 10.09
power: 8.50
power: 7.79
power: 7.70
power: 6.83
power: 6.57
Power: 5.64
power: 5.35
power: 4.43
power: 3.56
power: 3.11
power: 3.00
power: 2.91
Power: 2.28
power: 2.22
power: 2.13
power: 1.43
power: 0.78
power: 0.31

Astrolog 5.38

Wed Novenber 23, 1994

rH COT -5'8@ GAT)
4@*4SN

73°:

Nov 22 1994

--- PAGE 168 of 186 ---

[OCR] Sun
Moon
Moon
Moon

Mercury
Mercury

Sun

Moon
Jupiter
Jupiter

Uranus
Mercury
Sun

14: Neptune
15: Saturn
16: Uranus
17: Mercury
18: Saturn

WNHROWDYHUSWNH

Pee

(Can)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Can)
(Leo)
{Cap]
{Cap]
{Aqu]
(Leo)
(Can)
[Cap]
(Ari)
[Aqu}
(Leo)
(Ari)

Opp
Opp
Tri
Con
Tri
Opp
con
Tri
Squ
Squ
Sex
Opp
Tri
Sex
Sex
Con
Tri
Tri

{Cap}
[Aqu]
(Ari)
(Leo)
{Sag}
(Aqu]
(Leo)
{Sag}
[Lib]
(Ari)
{Sag}
[Cap]
{Sag)
(Sag]
[Aqu]
{Cap}
(Ari)
(Sag]

Neptune
Uranus
Saturn
Mercury
Pluto
Uranus
Mercury
Pluto
Node
Saturn
Pluto
Neptune
Pluto
Pluto
Uranus
Neptune
Saturn
Pluto

orb: -2:02'
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb: +2:26°
orb: -4:05"
orb: +6:07'
orb: -4:04°
orb: +4:26'
orb: +6:31'
orb: ~6:52'
orb: +6:53'

power: 11.93
power: 10.09
power: 7.61
power: 7.33
power: 5.99
power: 5.24
Power: 4.67
power: 4.35
power: 3.80
power: 3.64
power: 3.57
power: 3.33
power: 2.83
power: 1.93
power: 1.57
power: 0.69
power: 0.11
power: 0.10

Julu

I@

114.388
12S. 182
128.523

1996

i]
wo
by
8
th bieiene

Rstrolog 5.38 —
Tue July
12:@ipm COT -S:8@ GP
73°S7U_ 48°4SN
Plocidus houses.

1396

133.688
163.517

err
4°35
1°47
4°S8
e*}
ere
2°5
Bsr
e@°29
+13°12°

--- PAGE 169 of 186 ---

[OCR] WDIHUNLRWNH

10:
ll:
12:
13:
14:
15:
16:
17:
18:
19:
20:
21:

Moon
Jupiter
Mars
Sun
Moon
Saturn
Saturn
Uranus
Mars
Moon
Moon
Mars
Jupiter
Jupiter
Moon
Moon
Mars
Moon
Mercury
Mars
Neptune

(Leo)
(Aqu)
(Lib)
{Pis)
(Leo)
(Ari)
(Ari)
(Aqu)
[Lib)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Lib)
(Aqu)
(Aqu)
(Leo)
(Leo)
(Lib)
(Leo)
(Aqu)
{Lib)
(Cap)

Opp
Con
Opp
Squ
Sex
Tri
Sex
Sex
Sex
Opp
Sex
Tri
Sex
Sex
Tri
Tri
Tri
Opp
con
Tri
Tri

(Cap)
(Aqu)
(Ari)
(Sag)
{Lib}
(Sag)
(Aqu)
(Sag)
(Sag)
(Aqu)
(Lib]
(Aqu)
(Sag)
(Ari)
(Ari)
(Sag)
(Aqu)
(Aqu)
{Aqu)
(Cap)
[Lib]

Neptune
Uranus
Saturn
Pluto
Node
Pluto
Uranus
Pluto
Pluto
Uranus
Mars
Uranus
Pluto
Saturn
Saturn
Pluto
Jupiter
Jupiter
Venus
Neptune
Node

-2:24°
+0:36'
-0:47°
-4:27'
-0:38'
+0:00°
-0:36'
+0:36'
+0:47°
-5:03'
+3:39°
+1:23'
+1:12"
-1:13'
-4:27'
+4:27°
+2:00°
-5:40'
+4:47°
-6:04"
-1:45°

for

power:

9.80
9.14
7.10
7.10
7.10
6.00
5.40
5.40
5.22
5.16
5.02
4.81
4.80
4.78
4.66
4.66
4.29
4.08
3.17
0.80
0.56

(9Feb

19

Fe

f

Cor: 4, Fix: &, Mut:
2

ny
fing: 3. Suc: 3, Cad
Learn: 2, Shore: 9

fstralog 5.38
Wed
12:Bipm COT -S:@@ GNT)

13, 1997

12th house: .

Sun: 331.857 + 8°88
Moon: 121.864 - 4°25’
Merc: 315.848 - 1°55’
Venu: 328.627 - 1°87°
Mars: 184.738R + 3°42’
Jupi: 386.733 - 8°25’
Satu: 5.515 - 2°13°
Uron: 386.121 - 6°34’
Nept: 298.659 + 6°25
Plut: 245.517 +12°37°

188.425R + 8°@a’

Fire: 3, Earth: 1,
Air: G6, Water: 1
: 9, Yin

N: 4, Ss,

2.

an nN

PPELSEA0CVIO CKRGSP AVOOH

--- PAGE 170 of 186 ---

[OCR] Astrotog 5.38 -
Tue October 7, 1997
12:@lpm (DT -S:88 6M
73°S7_ 4@°4SN

Julian Day = 2458723. 1

Ast house: 253.255
2nd house:
3rd house: 326.783
‘th house: 2.874
Sth house: 31.289
Gth house: 53.714
?th house: 73.256
8th house: 187.377
Sth house: 146.789
18th house: 162.874

house: .
12th house: 233.714

Sun: 194.421 + @°8
Moon: 261.844 + S°1h
Merc: 189.734 + 1°31
Venu: 239.235 - 2°21
Mars: 246.155 - 1°8
Jupi: 312.8938 - @°S
Satu: 17.1866R - 2°44
Uran: 384.754R - 6°3t
Nept: 297.184R + 6°24°
Plut: 243.658 +12°@S’

> 168.244R +

1: Sun (Lib) Opp [Ari] Saturn - orb: -2:41' - power: 10.63
2: Sun (Lib) Tri [Aqu] Jupiter - orb: -2:19' - power: 8.52 Oct 7 1997
3: Sun (Lib) Con (Lib) Mercury - orb: +4:41' - power: 8.29
4: Mars (Sag) Con (Sag) Pluto - orb: +2:30' - power: 6.43
~ 5: Uranus [Aqu] Sex (Sag) Pluto - orb: +1:06' - power: 4.90
6: Mars (Sag) Sex [Aqu] Uranus - orb: -1:24* - power: 4.60
7: Moon (Sag) Tri {Ari] Saturn - orb: -4:44' - power: 4.29
8: Mercury (Lib) Tri [Aqu]) Jupiter - orb: +2:21' - power: 3.99
9: Venus (Sco) Sex [Cap] Neptune - orb: -2:03' - power: 3.95
10: Venus (Sco) Con (Sag) Pluto - orb: +4:24' - power: 3.71
ll: Mercury (Lib) Sex (Sag) Mars - orb: -3:34' - power: 2.43
12: Mercury (Lib) Tri [Aqu] Uranus - orb: -4:58' - power: 1.74
13: Sun (Lib) Sex (Sag) Moon - orb: +7:25' - power: 1.20
14: Jupiter [Aqu] Sex [Ari] Saturn - orb: +5:00' - power: 1.00
* 1S: Venus (Sco) Sex [Aqu] Uranus - orb: +5:31' - power: 0.48
16: Venus (Sco) Con (Sag) Mars - orb: +6:55' - power: 0.12
17: Mars (Sag) Sex [Aqu) Jupiter - orb: +5:56' - power: 0.07

109

--- PAGE 171 of 186 ---

[OCR] Sun
Moon
Moon

Venus
Mercury
Uranus
Jupiter

Sun
Mars
Moon

Venus
Moon
Sun

WNRFOWDYHAHBWNH

PRRR

(Sco)
{Lib)
(Lib)
(Sag)
{Sco)
(Aqu)
(Aqu)
(Sco)
(Sag)
(Lib)
(Sag)
(Lib)
(Sco)

Squ
Tri
Sex
Con
Squ
Sex
Sex
Squ
Tri
Tri
Tri
Tri
Squ

(Aqu)
(Aqu)
(Sag)
(Sag)
(Aqu)
(Sag)
{Aril
(Aqu)
{Ari]
(Cap)
{Ari]
(Aqu)
(Cap)

Uranus
Uranus
Pluto
Mars
Jupiter
Pluto
Saturn
Jupiter
Saturn
Neptune
Saturn
Jupiter
Neptune

Crrtene

Crane

f

orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:
orb:

1a?

Astrolog 5.38
Tue October 28, 1997

12:@ (OT -S:@8 GAT?
48°4SN

73°

Placidus houses.
Tropical, Geocentric
Julian Dey = 2458758. 1674

ist house: 271.291
2nd house: 318.267
3rd house: 351.716
‘tth house: 25.184
Sth house: 58.487
Gth house: 71.222
7th house: 91,291
8th house: 138.267
Sth house: 171.716
18th house: 285. 184
11th house: 238.487
12th house: 251.222

power: 15.13 Qc We 1997

power: 10.41
power: 9.65
power: 9.02
power: 5.85
power: 5.52
power: 3.30
- power: 1.00
- power: 0.96
- power: 0.53
- power: 0.37
power: 0.18
power: 0.07

? 215.288 + 8°88’
3 +

PHEXTIEAOCVUO 4SPROOHASKRS

--- PAGE 172 of 186 ---

[OCR] oMart 5.3 - chart db - [Gann made his first trade }
= ce

Name:
Dimensions:

Ganns first trade.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

{ma

--- PAGE 173 of 186 ---

[OCR] Ascendant

Ascendant
Uranus
Neptune
Midheaven
Neptune

Midheaven
Ascendant
414

08 08 1908.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

Dimensions:

--- PAGE 174 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name:

Wheat 1909.bmp

Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

}f aa L

|

.

ta

/ con

1Qe

--- PAGE 175 of 186 ---

[OCR] : fe + AstroMatt 5.3 - chart db - [Gann Cotton high 1

"r

Name: Gann cott high 1923.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

--- PAGE 176 of 186 ---

[OCR] Name:
Dimensions:

cott trades complete.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

--- PAGE 177 of 186 ---

[OCR] chart db - {Gann soy to

Name: Soy top 1941.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

--- PAGE 178 of 186 ---

[OCR] oys buy may 5 |

Name: Gann soys buy may 5.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

1a0

--- PAGE 179 of 186 ---

[OCR] old again may 7 |

Name:
Dimensions:

Gann soys sold again may 7.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

1a/

--- PAGE 180 of 186 ---

[OCR] low oct 17 1941 ]

Name: soy low oct 17 1941.bmp
Dimensions: 800 x 600 pixels

1@9

--- PAGE 181 of 186 ---

[OCR] Er

ea

3.- chart db - [Gann

Name:
Dimensions:

Gann sold soys again nov 14 1941t.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

--- PAGE 182 of 186 ---

[OCR] - AstroMart 5.3 - chart db - [Gann Cott to

Name:
Dimensions:

Gann cott top 1952.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

--- PAGE 183 of 186 ---

[OCR] —

mq

Name:
Dimensions:

Gann soys sold 412.bmp
800 x 600 pixels

--- PAGE 184 of 186 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 185 of 186 ---

[OCR] 16 Fo S—
:CPFod—
« FFok-
r $Ho ' io
1ccoF—
:£Eo Gt
:CCoFt

6dC-eaord\to-01-92 TYybeTIOD was\ojVogunqty\tTjuseumMsog\ :9

:qao
:quao
=qao
=o
qao
aa
- {io

UINgeS
uanges
snueay

paeg]
pdepy
[Bes]

Cua)

Culay>
¢(o3'T>

st Se

a
=
i
@
cons

ans

ont
aa 88 $82 882 BE 88 82
ed ON OF Lo Be

uns

--- PAGE 186 of 186 ---

[OCR] :9Fod-
r& Fo 9
1GFoGg—
r6f0 8+
:6Eon8+
r Sho a-
r To é-
rFEo F-
rts Fo F-
:ePo +
r6E0R+
riHo é-

rq.a0
q10
:q.0
quo
2440
qa0
qo
qa0
q.20
:qa0
1qao
:qao

aenhs ery) aH ¥e Joy pr ry cl SOR ¢
A 4

p TMRIC SIO WOAH; -
pasos aL

Ways aeents Ter pean ~

“Sup> Worden =

FWA oF pape pray S

Swaywany Peay TOP) cROAy Qt Jj pm? ‘T

& AVI Get Bh)

oa ke
prod OY
oe

HLIVE Mg Ue Snag

Snueay 4s Unges
~ : AANDESY

Snueain

>

>

st NO PL De On
Ss

AANA OY

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 351158936-TS-VECTOR-2.pdf
Total Pages: 6
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 6 ---

Price-Time Universe
 
written by Sergey Tarasov June 3, 2016
 
Introduction
In this article I would like to explain the technique that has been introduced 7 years ago (in 2009); at that time I have tended considering this approach as a totally experimental one. I still consider this technique as an experimental. During these 7 years
I have got some back feed from users regarding this module. So I decided to review this module with some attempt to find a rational explanation of this technique.
First step: 2D price time vector
The first step is a simple geometric measurement.  We calculate the Sun movement between two important turning points on March 6, 2009 and April 26, 2010. It is 410 degrees. Then we calculate the price movement within this period; it is 553
points. So, we can calculate the length of the vector that connects these two turning points; it is 688. This chart explains this idea:
 
 
This is a very important step, and I would like to explain in details what it really means. As a physicist, I have to do that.
De facto it means that we accept the  fact that price and time can be considered as a kind of space, a kind of time-price unity. This is not a simple physical process when the price is changing inside a time domain (like air temperature or pressure
changes in time, and we simply record these changes). No, it is more complicated as we delegate to the price the quality of space . Price does not changes in regards to the time; it changes due to the involvement of a human being (a trader) who
walks in this time-price Universe, though in regards to the time it is a one way road.
 Why is it so important to accept (or not accept) this fact? Simply because the acceptance or not acceptance of this fact gives us an ability to apply or not apply the mathematics. Usually the academic science prefers not working with the price
directly, using instead some normalized values like oscillators or percentage of daily gains, etc. It sets the price in a Procrustean bed of normalized/uniformed values, as an inevitable result of this procedure is that we can forecast timing but not price
values. Possibly for the next step we have to loose our academic virginity (but not the scientific common sense).
 Some analogy can be found in the evolution of science. More than 100 years ago Herman Minkowski  introduced four-dimensional spacetime manifold  that incorporates space and time in one coordinate system. This simple formalism helped Albert
Einstein to develop famous Einstein field equations. General theory of relativity shows how gravitation affects our four dimensional spacetime Universe making it curved. To build the building of new post-Newtonian physics, we have to interpolate our
Universe as four dimensional spacetime, we cannot separate this unity.
Now in 21 century this fact is very obvious for everybody. For example, look at what we can read in Wikipedia:
"Astronomers in the US have measured the distance of the farthest known galaxy, finding that its light took 13.1 billion years to reach Earth – which means the light was emitted just 700 million years after the Big Bang. Although the
galaxy is much smaller than the Milky Way, it is forming stars at a much faster...; Oct 23, 2013" 
You easily understand that this galaxy is located 13.1 billion years from Earth - this is space distance. At the same time, we understand that we are looking at OUR OWN history 13.1 billion years ago, 700 million years after Big Bang - this is time
distance.
Why I have to use so many words about that? You see, if we accept the fact that price has a quality of space, we may try to apply another model. As a simple example, we can calculate some formula that describes some market move in regards to
price; instead of creating a function like Sinus(time), we could use Sinus(price). Right now, in all 600+ K lines of Timing Solution code, you will not find this formula, as we cannot compare oranges (price) and apples (angles).
 
Second step: price time ratio - information speed
Now we have to set up the ratio between price and time domains. In example above we used a scale where 1 point of S&P500 corresponds to 1 degree of the Sun movement. For Dow Jones it would be better to use another ratio: 10 points of DJII
movement corresponds to 1 degree of Sun movement. Back to Minkowski spacetime manifold, the role of scaling coefficient between time and space plays the speed of light. And I would like to clarify one nuance here (this is a quote from
Wikipedia):
"According to special relativity, c is the maximum speed at which all matter and hence information in the universe can travel. It is the speed at which all massless particles ...."   You see, we speak more about information than speed itself, how fast the
information can be delivered. BTW, pay attention: they speak about massless particles because mass becomes infinity around the speed of light.
Ok, almost done. The last question is about metric formula, how to calculate the distance between two points in our new pricetime Universe. For example above, we used this formula, the distance between two points 1 and 2 calculates this way:
 
 
The time here is measured in the Sun movement units, so (Sun 2 - Sun 1) means the increment in the Sun position within this period. For example, within one year the Sun makes one full cycle through Ecliptic, i.e. 360 degrees; for ten years it is 3600
degrees, etc.
converted by Web2PDFConvert.com

--- PAGE 2 of 6 ---

For Dow it is better to scale the price as 1 degree of the Sun movement corresponds to 10 points of Dow change, so the distance between two points 1 and 2 is calculated this way:
Pay attention, the distance between points in our pricetime Universe is calculated in degrees of the Sun (or any other planet's) movement. You will see later why this metrics is more convenient. And last note a-la physicist: the signature of this metrics
is (+,+) which means that we consider price and time as similar dimensions, like we will work with two kinds of time, two dimensions of time. In the next section I will explain why this is important.
 
Equidistant circle
Now, let 's go back to our first chart. We have calculated there the distance between two turning points 1 and 2; it is 688 degrees of the Sun movement. You can plot all points with the same 688 degrees distance from initial point 1:
 
Regarding the metric signature: if we assume that the signature for our pricetime Universe is (+1,-1), i.e. price is a kind of space, the equidistant curve will look this way:
It does not look logical to me, so I have decided to use (+1,+1) pricetime space with ellipses provided by this approach (ellipses - because this is a widely used figure of technical analysis).
 
Scaling
In this example we use scaling ratio 1degree of the Sun movement=$1 of S&P500 movement. Let's modify this ratio a little and set it to 1 degree=$0.934419. This is the chart we get:
 
converted by Web2PDFConvert.com

--- PAGE 3 of 6 ---

The distance between these turning points is 720 degrees i.e. exactly two full cycles. Accordingly the equidistant circle is modified a bit, now it hits slightly different points of the price chart.
 
Harmonics
The same manner we can draw equidistant circles based on 360, 1080 (=3x360), 1440 (=4x360) degress. They look pretty much the same as standard concentric ellipses charting tools:
 
 
We can try to analyze these equidistant ellipses as some kind of information waves. Two important turning points are explained by two full waves (720 degrees). Ok, let's try also 360, 1080 etc. degrees ellipses, may be these ellipses bring some new
information for us ... just an idea.
 
Basic hypothesis
 As a basic hypothesis, we can use this: for a properly scaled chart, the distance between important turning points should form "good" angles like 180, 360,720 ... degrees  in our pricetime Universe. Plus harmonic waves may bring some important
information regarding the price movement as well.
 
Technology
We can describe the whole technology by three steps:
 
Step #1: Choose important turning points Let it be our turning points: bottom Mach 6, 2009 - to April 26, 2010.
 
Step #2:  Draw "2D Time-Price planetary distance/equidistant circles"  charting tool through these important turning points:
 
 
and try different planetary combinations there:
converted by Web2PDFConvert.com

--- PAGE 4 of 6 ---

I recommend to start with:
 Sun (Sun-Sun combination) - pricetime Annual circles;
Sun-Mercury helio  - pricetime Mercury synodic circles;
Sun-Venus helio  - pricetime Venus synodic circles;
Sun-Mars helio  - pricetime Mars synodic circles.
Actually you can try any planetary combinations. For example, Sun-Mars geo circles look very interesting.
 
Step #3: scaling these circles and watch how these circles hit important turning points.
Click "H" button, and the program will show you the list of scaling coefficients that provide "good" distances between our turning points:
 
 
As an example I have selected Sun-Mars geo planetary combination as time metrics. Highlighting the first item, we set the scaling coefficient to 2.07946. The pricetime distance between our turning points will be 360 degrees:
 
and I got these equidistant circles:
 
converted by Web2PDFConvert.com

--- PAGE 5 of 6 ---

This video explains how to do that:
 
 
IMHO, these figures should work as Fibonacci ellipses charting tools, so I do not dig into details here.  The advantage of this approach is that it provides the formal procedure: choose two turning points, check about a dozen of planetary
combinations, and for each planetary combination we have 1-3 scales that provide "good" distances between chosen turning points.  There are a few dozens (usually a dozen) variants that may be easily estimated from a trader's point of view.
 
Interference
If we accept that these cycles represent a kind of information waves in pricetime Universe, we are expecting to see interference between these waves. This video explains how to do that:
 
converted by Web2PDFConvert.com

--- PAGE 6 of 6 ---

[OCR] Web2

converted by Web2PDFConvert.com

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 362311634-Gann-s-Master-Mathematical-Formula-for-Market-Predictions.pdf
Total Pages: 5
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 5 ---

Gann’s Master Mathematical Formula For Market Predictions
Master Mathematical Price Time and Trend Calculator
By Daniel T. Ferrera
In 1954, at the age of nearly 76, W.D. Gann released a course based upon mathematical 
rules for making market predictions. In the advertisement for this method the author of the add 
writes: “We will not sell the course of instructions or teach the mathematical formula for 
market predictions just to get money, which we do not need or have to have; we will only sell the 
courses to people wh meet our requirements, and if we feel after a thorough investigation that a 
man or woman cannot make a success investing or trading we will refuse to teach them the 
courses”.  “The Master Calculator can only be used with the Master Courses. It is not sold 
separate from the other courses”.  The price shown for Gann’s Master Course in this ad is 
$5,000.00, it does not list the additional cost of the Master Mathematical Calculator. The ad 
describes the calculator as a plastic overlay that accurately measures Time, Price and Trend. 
Many Gann experts and students have tried to use these overlays, which require the chart to be 
hand drawn to a proper scale on graph paper that has 8 squares to one inch. This creates a lot 
of extra tedious work. This has caused one of Gann’s greatest discoveries to have been 
overlooked for many years. I know that some software programs have the ability to make these 
overlays on price charts but that is still not going to help most people because it turns out that 
there are also very precise mathematical rules regarding the horizontal axis or Time! In fact, 
these same mathematical rules apply to price as well but we will leave this topic for latter. The 
advertisement itself contains clues about the calculator, such as “W.D. Gann’s Record for 52 
years”, “After fifty-two years of experience and research going back hundreds of years, I have 
proved to my entire satisfaction that history repeats and that when we know the past, we can 
determine the future of prices”. The calculator that Gann is talking about in this ad is his 
square of 52 overlay, which is based upon the 52 weeks in a year. The basic overlay looks like 
this:

--- PAGE 2 of 5 ---

This is also the same geometric form that Gann used for the Square of 90 and Square of 
144 plastic overlays. This basic structure or overlay appears in many books on Sacred 
Geometry and is also the secret to George Bayer’s “Trend Determination” course. Getting back 
to Gann and the square of 52 course we find that this is the course where Gann made the 
confusing statement: “ Within the circle forms the square, there is an inner circle and an inner 
square, as well as an outer square and an outer circle which prove the Fourth Dimension in 
working out price movements”. This quote is describing a fractal nature or structural pattern 
existing in the markets that is the same on smaller levels as it is at larger levels. 
Jumping over to Gann’s Angle course, on the last page, GA-32, Gann says: “Figuring 
$100, or par, as a basis for stock prices and changing these prices to degrees, 12½ = 45-degrees, 
25 = 90-degrees, 37½= 135-degrees, 50 = 180-degrees, 62½ = 225-degrees, 75 = 270-degrees, 82½ 
= 315-degrees, and 100 = 360”. This tiny little paragraph is the basis of the entire Murrey Math 
Trading Course, which readers of Traders World should be very familiar with since, T.H. 
Murrey has written numerous articles for the magazine. These numbers are all natural 8th
numbers off of the base of 10, 100, 1000, 10000, 100000, etc.  The part that is most confusing is 
balancing this with the time element, but based on the information given by Gann himself it 
should be obvious that he has already shown us part of the relationship. For example: If shares 
of XYZ stock moved up 12½ dollars in 45 days, weeks or 45 months then the stock is on the 
price degree of it’s time angle, that is to say that price and time are equal or balanced. Gann’s 
example: “When a stock sells at 50 on the 180th day, week or month, it is on the degree of its 
time angle”. “On February 1, 1915, U.S. Steel made a low at $38, which is closest to a price of

--- PAGE 3 of 5 ---

$37½, which is 3/8th of 100 and equals 135-degree angle. Steel was 14 years or 168 months old on 
February 25, 1915, and hit the angle of 135-degrees, which showed that the price of Steel was 
behind time, but was in a strong position, holding at $38 above the 135-degree angle or the price 
$37½”. Just to make sure that you understand this information, U.S. Steel would have been 
balanced or “on the degree of its time angle” at a price of $46 5/8th because $100/ 360-degrees = 
0.27777cents per degree and 168 months multiplied by 0.27777 = $46.67 which is closest to $46 
or 5/8th in price. Therefore, Steel is $8 5/8th behind time. T.H. Murrey has his time rules based 
off the “Harvest Moon” but I would stick to W.D. Gann’s time definitions when using this 
natural 8th system and his plastic overlays as his method has a clear degree relationship to both 
price and time and also to the fractal structure, which he described in the quote mentioned 
above.  I will discuss how to set up these charts properly in terms of time latter in the article 
with specific examples. Gann goes on to say: “When Steel reached $200, it equaled 2 circles of 
360-degrees (two complete cycles of $100). When it advanced to $261¾, it was closest to $62½ 
(5/8th) in the third cycle of $100 or nearest the 225-degree angle or 5/8th point, which is the 
strongest angle after it crossed the half-way point at $250 or the 180-degree angle”. Note that 
Gann rejects the two circles or cycles of $100 price to convert the time angle. These instructions 
are also very different than what Murrey Math instructs students to do but I do not want to get 
into that subject.
Moving on to the subject of time we know that Gann placed great emphasis on the 
cardinal points of the solar year. These are the Vernal Equinox, Summer Solstice, Autumnal 
Equinox and Winter Solstice or March 21st, June 21st, September 21st, and December 21st
respectively.  Gann always said that the year begins at March 21st (not January 1st) and that this 
was a very important seasonal time.  Now this is where Gann’s “within the circle forms the 
square” quote gets real interesting! If we treat each natural year (March 21st to March 21st) as a 
complete circle, which it is because the earth has gone 360-degrees around the Sun, and take 
W.D. Gann at his word that there is a square within this orbit then we come up with some very 
unique geometrical information about time and squares, i.e. Gann’s plastic overlays. Lets build 
a hypothetical square running from Vernal Equinox to Vernal Equinox as our horizontal axis 
and we will use 0 to 100 as our vertical. If we draw in the two 45-degree Angles corner to corner 
we have a shape that looks like a box with an x in it. The two 45’s will meet at the exact center of 
both price and time at $50 on the Autumnal Equinox or September 21st. If we bisect this square 
again with a horizontal line going left to right at $50, and a vertical line going straight up from 
the Autumn Equinox we can create four smaller squares with half of the x already completed. If 
we complete these smaller boxes with the missing 45-degree line we will find that these points 
come out at $25 and $75 in price and also 25% and 75% in time or Sumer Solstice to Winter 
Solstice (June 21st to December 21st).  If we take these 4 points, which are $25 on June 21st, $75 
on June 21st, $25 on December 21st and $75 on Decembers 21st and make a new square, we find 
that our new square is exactly half the size of our former square set within the ¼ points in terms 
of both price and time. Our new square also maintains the exact center of our old square at $50. 
This new square is now an exact musical octave of the old square because it’s based upon 
powers of 2 or is exactly ½ our old square. This tells us that if we want to find a square that is 
within our old square that we will only find it between the two Solstice points in the year! If we 
wanted to enlarge the original square (to find an outer square) we would again follow the 
natural law of the musical octave, i.e. powers of 2. The first part of the problem is easy because 
we know that the next square is going to be twice as large as our old square. So this means that 
we are moving up from a one-year square to a two-year square in terms of time but this does

--- PAGE 4 of 5 ---

not answer where in time this new square begins and ends. To calculate where this larger 
square begins and ends we have to use the rule “as above so below”. In other words, when we 
made the smaller square, we found that it existed within the larger square at the 25% and 75% 
points in time, therefore March 21st to March 21st is within the ¼ points of the larger square 
above it. In our one-year square, a ¼ of time is 90-degrees or 91.3125 solar days. This means 
that a ¼ of time in the next larger square is 180-degrees or 182.625 solar days, i.e. twice as big. 
If we add and subtract 180-degrees/days from our smaller square running March to March, we 
will find that our two-year square begins and ends at the Autumnal Equinox. The same is true 
for a 4-year, 8-year, 16-year square, etc. Getting back to the inner squares, a 90-degree square 
(1/2 of our 180-degree Summer Solstice to Winter Solstice and winter back to summer circle) 
would begin and end 45-degrees after the Sumer Solstice and 45-degrees before the Winter 
Solstice because 45 is ¼ of 180. This would be 45.65 days or ¼ of 182.625. So this means we 
would have another (90-degree) square running inside the (180-degree) Solstice squares 
beginning on August 5th and ending November 5th. Then just as we have two 180-degree Solstice 
squares running from Summer to Winter, then Winter back to Summer, we also have four 90-
degree squares running from August 5th to November 5th, November 5th to February 5th, 
February 5th to May 5th and May 5th  back to August 5th. These are all exact mathematical points 
to look for squares based upon Gann’s plastic overlay pattern. I am providing two charts of the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average (closing price only) so that you can visually see what Gann was 
describing in his Square of 52 course. Anyone interested in studying Gann, should purchase 
their materials from Brad Stewart at Sacred Science Institute (www.Sacredscience.com), as I 
have found them to contain many unique sections of information that is not provided by others 
selling Gann related material. I have made many of my best discoveries, including the 
information presented in this article, from the course materials provided by the Sacred Science 
Institute!

--- PAGE 5 of 5 ---

“ Within the circle forms the square, there is an inner circle and an inner square, as well as an 
outer square and an outer circle which prove the Fourth Dimension in working out price 
movements”. 
Please note that the inner square is an exact musical octave of the larger outer square. 
Wishing you a Success,
Daniel T. Ferrera

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 402779044-Understanding-Gann-Price-and-Time-Cycle-docx.pdf
Total Pages: 9
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 9 ---

Download: Gann Square Numbers Trading Strategy.mp3Gann Square Of 
9.mp3 
http://emp3u.xyz/download/gann-square-numbers-trading-strategy/ZSvlrEs8vCo.html 
 
http://emp3u.xyz/mp3/gann-square-of-9.html 
Understanding Gann Price and Time Cycle 
http://www.brameshtechanalysis.com/2015/03/understanding-gann-price-and-time-cycle/ 
365 days is an important cycle of one year. In a circle there are 360 degrees which very nearly correspond 
to this cycle. In other words, one day is equal to one degree of the circle that the earth makes around the 
sun. Hence the significance of the important divisions of the circle (into angles) on the chart. These angles 
are 45, 90, 120, 135, 180, 225, 240, 270, 315 and 360. 
Dividing a line parallel to the 90 degree division of the circle we get a square. Divisions of this square gives 
important angles on the charts. 
There are two kinds of cycles: 
 
Time cycle or natural cycles and 
 
Cycles derived from the significant prices. 
And these cycles will have important divisions on 1/8, 1/4, 1/3, 3/8, 1/2, 5/8, 2/3, 3/4 and 7/8. Thus the 30 
year time cycle will be divided into important probable turning points as follows: 
1/8 – 3.75 years 
1/4 – 7.5 years 
1/3 – 10 years and so on. 
The significant time cycle/squares are Square of 52 on weekly charts. 
Use it on important high/low as well as on those points which start a 90 day cycle. Also two squares or a 
cycle of two years can be used. Inner squares (squares formed within the square) and outer squares 
(squares of the same size placed adjacent or diagonal to the square) should also be seen when price moves 
into the same. Square of 90 is also important – in the same manner as square of 52 on weekly charts and 
monthly charts. 
Square of 144 is the most important square for use on monthly charts. These cycles have influence on price 
in terms of absolute numbers in addition to the time cycles they signify. It means that a movement of 144 
point in a stock is important by itself. 
  
Weekly and monthly time cycles are the most important cycles. 
The cycles derived from prices are based on High, Low and Range (i.e. difference between high and low). 
The most powerful is the square of the range. The absolute number at high, low or that of range is 
assumed to be forming a time cycle with so many days, weeks or months. In other words, a high at 
60 means a time cycle of 60 days/weeks/months. 
For the below points visualize using gann box it will be easy to understand. 
Thus a cycle derived from prices will have two axis – Vertical price axis and horizontal time axis. Significant 
changes can be expected at important divisions of price or time. But the most significant changes should be 
expected at the angles made by combining the two. These angles are made on the square of the price. Here 
square does not mean price raised to the power of two. This is the geometrical square where the length of 
one side is equal to the price. The square is drawn down from high and up from low. The square of range 
can be made down from top or up from low. In a square of high at say 60, drawn on daily graph will have its 
corners at the following four points – 1) at the price (at 60) 2) at the price (at 60) 60 days away in future i.e. 
60 on price axis 60 days to the right on the time axis from the day on which the price has reached 60. 3) at 
zero on price axis just below the high and 4) at zero 60 days to the right of point 3. 
If the price moves down one point each day the price will reach to the point 4, i.e. 0 on the 60th day. This 
action is called squaring off of the price. The angle of fall will be 45% on the square. This is also referred 
to as 1×1 angle i.e. fall of one unit in one day. In same fashion we can draw angle 2×1 i.e. fall of two units in 
one day and so on. The most significant angles are 2×1, 1×1 and 1×2. These angles are drawn from point 1, 
3 and the mid-point between 1 and 3 and the mid-point on 2 and 4. 
Crossing over of the angles drawn on the square are considered probable turning points. Angles 
from 50% mark should always be seen.

--- PAGE 2 of 9 ---

When the price breaks below 45% angle line it signifies a weak position and indicates a decline to the next 
angle. If it again crosses the 45% angle it is said to have regained its strength. At the crossover of these 
angles distance from the base i.e. the day of high/ low is important. Larger the distance, more powerful the 
trend is likely to be. 
1/2 is the most important level. This is the centre of gravity. If the price falls below this level and bounces 
back to touch this level again, on the first such occasion it is good set up to shortsell. If the price 
comes to 50% of high and 50% in time, it may be a high probability buy which may result in 3 
months fast move up on the weekly chart. 
The third time against any support or resistance zone is the dangerous time. The 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 9th 
and 12th squares are the significant squares of lows but all should be monitored. (i.e. the price levels at 
2,3,4,7,9,12 times the low). 
Gann trend following techniques 
http://www.brameshtechanalysis.com/2015/01/gann-trend-following-techniques/ 
 Trend and trend following techniques: In fast advancing markets, in the last stage of the campaign, 
reactions get smaller as stocks work to higher level, until the final run has ended. Then comes a sharp 
reaction and a reversal in the trend. Same happens in the bear market. Once you are convinced that a trend 
is in force, do not wait too long to go with the trade. Early in the trend buy/sell a stock which is already 
strong/weak. 
 
Fast moves generally come from bear market bottoms. 
 
These moves usually run three weeks up, then move sideways three to five more weeks, and then 
accelerate followed by another sideways movement. 
 
Under fast moves the first signal to trend change is overbalance i.e. reaction gets larger compared to 
the earlier ones, specially in the fifth wave. Watch the changes in momentum of price – is the 
market/stock gaining less points in more time? If the market is trending up, then it should go up more 
time than it goes down. And vice versa. 
Any reversal pattern should be seen in conjunction with the time cycles. Do not pay attention to the 
financial press. 
Use simple trading filter of not entering the market on the third day of the move. 
The Cycle of years : Seasonality 
Watch for significant days in solar year – Dec. 22, March 21, June 22, Sep 21/23 etc. and days on 
important angles from these days e.g. 15 days from Dec. 22 i.e. Jan 5-6, Feb 5, May 6, July 7, August 8 etc. 
Important count of days: Significant changes in trend may take place on the following days from the 
significant highs/ lows – 30, 45, 60, 90, 135, 150, 180, 210, 225, 315, 330 and 360. 
These are calendar day counts: Trading day counts are 11, 22, 33, 45, 56, 67, 78, 90, 101, 112, 123, 135, 
146, 157, 168 and 180. True understanding of cycles are obtained from the calendar days. 
Important count of weeks: 13, 26, 39, 45, 52, 78.   7 week period is considered as death zone. 
Important count of months – 6, 12, 144. 
  
In the short term, watch 3.5 day i.e. the 3rd / 4th day from the important top / bottom for change in 
minor trend. It may become a beginning of a major trend. 
Reactions will often last for two or three weeks. Therefore watch 14th day and 21st day along with the 7th 
day from the important top/ bottom. Out of these 14th is the most significant and 21 the next. (Note that 14 is 
very close to 13 and 21 is Fibonacci number itself). 
1/16 of the year is 23 days. Watch for this too. 
Square of 7, 49 is very important for change in trend. 
Watch for a change after 42 days (2×21), but the change may not occur until 45th-46th day. (I have noticed 
that on many charts of A group stocks 42 day or near about fixed time cycles are important. These numbers, 
very close to each other, gives some flexibility in analysis, Fibonacci numbers plus minus a few days). 
On yearly charts, 90 year, 60 year, 30 year, 20 year, 10 year, 7 years and their multiples and 5 year cycles 
are important to watch especially the simultaneous end/ beginning of these cycles. 
1/3 years from any top/bottom when combines with 1/2 or 1/4 years from any other top/bottom becomes 
very important. 1/2 of the year is the very important – same as the half of the range/high. Anniversaries, 
however are the most important. 39 weeks and 17 weeks and 35 weeks are also important.

--- PAGE 3 of 9 ---

Techniques in Market Timing - Price Time Squaring  
https://www.amazingaccuracy.com/investing-article-detail.php?artID=69 
In this article I will discuss a technical analysis technique used for forecasting a change in market trend 
called Price/Time Squaring. It is a technique that many associate with the late great W. D. Gann. 
The idea here is to start from a major market top or bottom price and to calculate its 'square'. At first 
glance you might think this means to simply square the price by multiplying it with itself. Close, but not 
exactly. 
First, to solve for the 'time' itself, you would actually take the 'square root' of the starting price. Take for 
example the weekly chart of Soybeans. Week of December 5, 2008 put in a major market bottom. 
Using the low of that week (my charts are reverse-adjusted, so your price may differ somewhat) at 626, 
you take the square root to arrive at 25.02. Because the result is just above 25, it is now inside the 26th 
square. To understand this, think of the first square to be from 0 to .99. The second square would then 
begin at 1 to 1.99, etc. 
Starting from the December 5, 2008 weekly price bar as bar zero, you start to count 26 price bars to the 
right. We arrive at June 5, 2009, which turned out to be one weekly price bar from the major top of 
week June 12, 2009. In the world of market timing, getting to within a single price bar of a major market 
trend change is quite the edge to have. 
Another misconception that some have is that when you are calculating for Price/Time that when 'time' 
arrives the 'price' would be at exactly square of the original price. In reality, however, while this may 
occur at times it is not what should be expected. Rather, when 'time' nears the trader should then be 
looking at price to reach one of the 'square' levels for which there will be more than one. 
Techniques in Market Timing - Price Time Squaring I 
In this article I will discuss a technical analysis technique used for forecasting a change 
in market trend called Price/Time Squaring. It is a technique that many associate with 
the late great W. D. Gann. 
 
The idea here is to start from a major market top or bottom price and to calculate its 
'square'. At first glance you might think this means to simply square the price by 
multiplying it with itself. Close, but not exactly. 
 
First, to solve for the 'time' itself, you would actually take the 'square root' of the 
starting price. Take for example the weekly chart of Soybeans. Week of December 5, 
2008 put in a major market bottom. Using the low of that week (my charts are reverse-
adjusted, so your price may differ somewhat) at 626, you take the square root to arrive 
at 25.02. Because the result is just above 25, it is now inside the 26th square. To 
understand this, think of the first square to be from 0 to .99. The second square would 
then begin at 1 to 1.99, etc. 
 
Starting from the December 5, 2008 weekly price bar as bar zero, you start to count 26 
price bars to the right. We arrive at June 5, 2009, which turned out to be one weekly 
price bar from the major top of week June 12, 2009. In the world of market timing, 
getting to within a single price bar of a major market trend change is quite the edge to 
have. 
 
Another misconception that some have is that when you are calculating for Price/Time 
that when 'time' arrives the 'price' would be at exactly square of the original price. In 
reality, however, while this may occur at times it is not what should be expected.

--- PAGE 4 of 9 ---

Rather, when 'time' nears the trader should then be looking at price to reach one of the 
'square' levels for which there will be more than one. 
Price and Time Decision Points the W. D. Gann Way 
W. D. Gann was an incredible chartist and trader back in the early part of the 20th Century. One of the 
most powerful technical analysis methods he shared in the works he left behind was the application of 
'percentage movements'. 
Gann believed (and has demonstrated) that important price levels could be determined by dividing 
ranges by 8 as well as 3. He then pointed out that these divisional price points had different levels of 
importance. 
For example, dividing a range by 8 you would end up with percentage levels of 12.5, 25, 37.5, 50, 62.5, 
75 and 87.5. And of course there is 100%, although focus is on the divisions of the complete 100% 
range. 
First level of importance is generally considered the 50% level. After that would be 33.3 and 66.66 
(thirds). 
These levels could be determined on a market that is correcting (moving back within the price range 
the divisions are derived from) in order to try and determine price levels that might stop the correction, 
or they could be added to the end of the price range to determine levels of extension (beyond the 
range). 
For the first example, say price moves up from a bottom at 100 and stops at 200, then starts down 
again. The range equals 100 points, so the support levels would be 200 (the top of the range) minus 
12.5 (187.50), 25 (175), 37.5 (162.5) and so-forth. 
For the second example using the same range as the previous example, the extended price levels 
would be 200 (again the top of the range) plus 12.5 (212.5), 25 (225)...50 (250) and so-forth. And of 
course you would do the same with the levels calculated from thirds. 
These levels act as price decision points, where the technical analyst and trader would then have to 
further determine if price is likely to make bottom or top at that level. While price often forms bottoms 
and tops at one of these levels, knowing which one requires more than just noticing a pause in price 
action at that level. 
Thus, W. D. Gann also expressed how these percentage calculations can be applied to TIME. For 
example, if the range from 100 to 200 took 28 days to complete, that gives a range in TIME as well. 
With your range in time, best divided in quarters (25, 50, 75, 100) and thirds (33.33, 66.66) and the 
result added to the last day of that range, you get points in time where you would look to see if price is 
also at one of the support or resistance levels you calculated from price. 
This is just one of the many valuable methods taught by W. D. Gann that every technical trader should 
know and put into practice. 
The DYNAMIC FAN LINES Calculator 
https://www.amazingaccuracy.com/tradingcalculators/index.php

--- PAGE 5 of 9 ---

Study of Gann concept and the implementations 
http://studyofgann.blogspot.in/2008/09/time-and-price.html 
Time and Price 
By Howard Arrington 
 
William D. Gann (1878-1955) was a legendary trader who designed several unique techniques for analyzing price 
charts. He developed a unique combination of precise mathematical and geometric principles which are not easy 
to grasp. Gann analysts have spent years pouring over old charts and writings in search of Gann’s secret, and 
there is no end to the number of people who claim to have discovered Gann’s insight and technique that has 
eluded everyone else. Perhaps someone has discovered it. I am not in a position to appraise all the claims 
because I am not a Gann expert and have not read Gann’s writings. 
 
Don Hall has published a book and developed a system called Pyrapoint which seems to me to be well founded 
in Gann principles. The purpose of this article is to take one idea used in Don’s work, and present it from a 
different approach, and yet arrive at the same useful conclusion. I hope even Don will fi nd my article to be an 
original insight to substantiate the validity of his work. 
 
Gann’s geometric angles are trend lines drawn from prominent tops or bottoms at certain angles. The most 
important angle is 45 degrees, which means the line’s slope is one unit of price per unit of time. (Note: Depending 
of the chart scale used, the line may or may not appear to be plotted at a 45 degree angle.) For years, I thought 
this is what Gann analysts meant by the phrase ‘squaring time and price.’ However, Don’s Pyrapoint method gave 
me a new insight, which is: 
Price = Time squared or P = t ^ 2 
 
Let me take this mathematical relationship and develop it in this article. The above relationship between price and 
time can be plotted on a chart as shown in this illustration. The time values of 10, 20, and 30 are marked by the 
three arrows. See Figure 1. 
 
 
 
For the sake of illustration, let’s suppose a prominent top or bottom occurs at a price of 400. The theory is that 
this signifi cant point has a mathematical counterpart. Start a new time curve at this point in time, and it will give 
us an expectation for a future top or bottom to occur on this curve. This principle can be stated as ‘When price 
meets time, a change is imminent.’ This ‘price meets time’ relationship is shown in the following chart. See Figure

--- PAGE 6 of 9 ---

2. 
 
 
With the prominent top or bottom at P, if price meets the curve at point A it will do so in 18 bars. The time to A is 
the square root of the price at A. Price at A is 324. Square root of 324 is 18. 
 
If price meets the curve at point B, it will do so in 20 bars. The time to B is the square root of the price at B. Price 
at B is 400, therefore the time to B is 20 bars. 
 
If price meets the curve at point C, it will do so in 22 bars. This is a very interesting concept! 
 
Remember that price and time are related by the formula: 
P = t ^ 2 or t = sqrt( P ) 
 
In this article, I will develop the mathematics for the slope of a trend line using the price and time relationship 
presented in the previous article. Let’s work with the model illustrated in this See Figure 3. 
 
 
 
From the previous article, the next time curve will be t bars away for a given price P. At a time t+1 price would 
meet the curve at price P1. Now, lets solve for the slope of the trend line shown in blue which connects P and P1. 
 
P = t ^ 2 
 
P1 = (t + 1) ^ 2 = t ^ 2 + 2 t + 1 = P + 2 t + 1 
 
Slope = (Change in price) / (Change in time) 
 
Change in price = P1 - P = P + 2 t + 1 - P = 2 t + 1 = 2 t + 2 - 1 = 2 [ t + 1] -1 
 
Change in time = t + 1 
 
Therefore, slope of P to P1 is = (2 [ t + 1] - 1) / (t+1) = 2 – 1 / (t+1) = 2 - 1 / sqrt( P1 ) 
 
If we normalize all prices to consider three signifi cant digits, then all prices will fall in the range 
of [100 ... 1000]. By substituting the price boundaries into the slope formula, 
we can get a range of slopes as follows.

--- PAGE 7 of 9 ---

For a P1 of 100, the slope of the up trend line to 100 = 2 - 1 / 10 = 1.9 
For a P1 of 1000, the slope of the up trend line to 1000 = 2 - 1 / 100 = 1.99 
The slope of the up trend line at the midpoint of this price range is 2 - 1 / sqrt(500) = 1.96 
 
Let’s call this trend line a 45 degree line because we developed the slope using one unit of price change from P 
to P1 with one unit of time t. For this 45 degree line, the slope is basically 2. I 
think this is strong justifi cation as to why Gann used 2 cents as the price grid interval of his daily grain charts. 
Such a scale layout would naturally give Gann 45 degree angles with a slope of 2 cents per daily bar. I have 
shown that 2 is the slope of the upward 45 degree trend 
line that develops from the price and time relationship given by the formula: P = t ^ 2. 
 
One can solve for the slope of the downward trend line from P1 to P to obtain this result: 
 
Slope of P1 to P = (-2 t - 1) / (t-1) = (-2 [t - 1] - 3 ) / (t-1) = -2 - 3 / (t-1) = -2 – 3 / (sqrt( P ) - 1) 
 
For a P of 100, the slope of the down trend line to 100 = -2 - 3/9 = -2.33 
 
For a P of 1000, the slope of the down trend line to 1000 = -2 - 3/99 = -2.03 
 
Again, the slope of the down trend line approaches a value of -2. Therefore, -2 is a good approximation for the 
slope of a downward 45 degree trend line. 
 
Now I would not bother to give you the mathematics in the previous two articles if I did not fi nd application of this 
theory in the charts. I used the mathematics given in the fi rst two articles to 
develop a tool in ESPL which draws horizontal lines at calculated price levels, and nearly vertical time curves at 
the calculated time intervals. This forms a grid of trapezoids like the previous illustration. (Don Hall calls them 
‘squares’.) 
 
Diagonal lines connect the corners of the trapezoids to give support and resistance trend lines. 
Here is a daily chart of JNPR with the construction started on the highest high. All price levels, time intervals, and 
trend lines are constructed mathematically from two pieces of information: the price $244.50 on the date 10-16-
2000. 
 
There is more in this chart than I have space to explain. But, I can point out some haracteristics. The horizontal 
price lines have a label on the left which is a degree of rotation around a Square of 9. This is covered in the 
Pyrapoint book, but is beyond the scope of this article. Note that in my example, the time lines are nearly vertical. 
This is a slight variation from the method of construction in the Pyrapoint book which shows vertical lines. I feel 
that my presentation is appropriate because of the theory of the time curve illustrated in my fi rst article. The time 
curve forms the left and right sides of the trapezoid, and the price levels form the top and bottom sides.

--- PAGE 8 of 9 ---

Time: Time is measured by the time curve, which is related to price. 
Tip: ‘As price meets time, a change is imminent.’ 
Note the first time line labeled 12 on the bottom and 16 on the top. 
If price meets time at the -720 horizontal, then the time for the change would be the 12th bar from the top. 
If price meets time at the -540 horizontal, then the time for the change would be the 13th bar from the top. At the -
360 horizontal, the time change would be in the 14th bar. At the -180 horizontal, the time change would be in the 
15th bar. At the 0 line, the time measured would be 16 bars. 
 
That is why the top of the time line is labeled with a 16, and the bottom of the line is labeled with a 12. Starting at 
16, for each 180 degree down the time count is reduced by one bar, or for every 180 degree rise, the time count 
increases another bar. Note that the market did experience a change when price met the time curve labeled 12 to 
16! 
 
The price at the 12 to 16 time line was used to obtain a forecast of the 2nd time line, which is labeled 25 to 31. As 
the price meets each time curve, a new time curve is calculated based on the price. Each of the time curves 
shows excellent correlation with market change when price met the time line. 
 
Prices: The prominent high of $24.50 is the calculation basis for all the horizontal price levels that are shown. 
 
Tip: The market seeks out these price levels, and you can calculate these prices in advance. Note how the 
market fell to the -540 horizontal, rallied to the -180 horizontal, fell to the -900 level, rallied to the -540 level, fell to 
the -1080 level, and rallied to the -720 level. 
 
Trend Lines: The downward 45 degree trend lines shown in red create a flow channel, or ‘price highway’ as Don 
calls it. 
The upward 45 degree trend lines shown in green create a price highway going the other direction. 
The red lines are resistance lines that the market must close above to change direction from bearish to bullish. 
The green lines are support lines that the market must close below to change direction from bullish to bearish. 
 
We all have used upward trend lines placed underneath action lows to indicate support, and downward trend lines 
placed above action highs to indicate resistance. The beauty of this tool is that these diagonal trend lines are 
computed in advance, and the market seems to have respect for them. Price fl ows up and down the channels. 
The more you study the example, the more impressed I think you will be with this tool. 
 
The Pyrapoint tool can also be applied to intra-day charts with good success. The size of the price interval used 
on a daily chart seems to be too big for use on an intra-day chart. No problem. Don points out that there are 
squares within a square. All one needs to do is subdivided the price interval into halves, fourths, or eighths. The 
time interval is determined from price and will not change. 
 
One question that I have dealt with is this: If the time interval computes to be 11 bars because the price is at 121, 
which intra-day bar time frame should I use? If 1-minute bars are used, then we have a time curve 11 minutes 
later. If 2-minute bars are used, then the time curve would be 22 minutes later. If 5-minute bars are used, then the 
time curve is plotted 55 minutes later. Now do you see why I have a question? The selection of the intra-day bar 
time frame greatly affects the time interval measured by the next time curve. 
 
Here is how I tackled the problem, and the proposed solution. I displayed a 1-minute chart and used a cycle tool 
to measure in hindsight the cycle rhythm from bottoms to bottoms, tops to tops, 
and/or bottoms to tops. When I found a cycle width that seems to fi t by catching multiple turning points, I note the 
number of minutes in the cycle. I use this formula to estimate a good intra-day time frame to use. 
 
Intra-day Bar Time Frame = Cycle width in minutes / sqrt( P ) 
Example: On the JNPR 1-minute chart I found a 65 minute cycle when the price was around $133. Therefore, bar 
time = 65 / sqrt( 133 ) = 5.6 minutes per bar. So, using a 6-minute chart, or 
possibly a 5-minute chart should show a good fi t with the Pyrapoint tool. I happened 
to have been following a 5-minute chart, and I do fi nd excellent correlation. 
I have used a smaller price interval by subdividing the 180 degree interval into 
eighths in this example. See Figure 5.

--- PAGE 9 of 9 ---

Please study the chart, and observe the fl ow of prices in the up and down trend channels. Note how trend 
changes occur on or near the vertical time curves, and how the market seeks the horizontal price levels. This 
entire road map is computed in advance from the prominent 
top that occurred on January 12th at 9:35 a.m. 
 
Mr. Arrington can be reached at Ensign Software, www.ensignsoftware.com. This article came from thier 
technical newsletter. If you are interested in the Pyrapoint System. You can purchase the Pyrapoint Book with the 
script and demo program on CD for just $179.95. + shipping. Call 800-288-4266 or go to www.tradersworld.com

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 411614909-Gann-s-Master-Time-Factor-Flanagan.pdf
Total Pages: 3
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 3 ---

W. D. Gann’s Master Time Factor RevealedBy James Flanagan a Time great that published deal has
made of done mystery books him a an great and alleged has deal the been in stock $50 adding 
attached million and tocommodity the in to prots legend his methods during of courses W.D. his of
Gann he trading. career. updated and Yet, the It is trading over despite often the asserted
 methods  his years,  four that Gann either did not reveal the most important of his secrets, or 
obscured them in his courses with very little explanation.
For vendors of trading systems and approaches, this has been used very effectively as a
marketing tool in selling the “secrets” to W.D. Gann’s success. After all, the search for the “holy
grail” plays on all of our emotions, and our as sense of greed.
While we also have proted from the name of Gann, we believe Gann did reveal his
most valuable forecasting technique, and spelled it out in clear language. Its value can only
be appreciated by those willing to prove its effectiveness by looking back over hundreds of
years of data in each market.
When Gann said, “I have more income than I can spend for my needs, therefore, my only
object in writing this book is to give others the most valuable gift possible - KNOWLEDGE”, we
believe he was sincere. Our research to date, suggests that Gann’s greatest gift was his discovery
of what he referred to the Master Time Factor. In his various course he refers to the Master Time
Factor alternately as Time Cycles, Major Cycles, Master Time Periods, Extreme Great Cycles
and Law of Vibration. It is important that we provide a compelling argument from Gann’s own
published works, of why we believe that this was his most valuable contribution.
First off, it stands to reason that he would charge the highest price for his most valuable
instruction. In the 1930’s, he offered a series of three courses which he made available at $500,
$1000 and $3000. Needless to say, a cost of $3000 in 1930 dollars was a very steep $20,000 in
today’s dollars. The third course differed from his other courses in one major respect, it included
his “secret discovery of the Master Time Factor”. This he stated clearly in the sales brochure he
provided for those requesting information about his courses.
In this course, he lists the twelve things to look up before you make a trade. Heading
the list at #l is, “Annual Forecast determines year of Time Cycles, whether bull or bear
year and main trend of the general market up or down.” This was the Master Time Factor.
It is listed as #I because it is of primary importance. It is what makes many of his other
rules understandable.
Reviewing some of his claims: “The law of vibration enabled me to accurately determine the
exact points to which stocks and commodities should rise and fall.” “ By studying time cycles,

--- PAGE 2 of 3 ---

you will learn why tops and bottoms are formed at certain times.” “In order to be accurate we
must know the major cycles.” “Always consider the annual forecast and whether the big time
limit has run out before judging a reverse move.”
This chastening by Gann to his students, is backed up by some of the most spectacular
forecasts of highs and lows in history during Gann’s 50-year trading career. His prediction
of the top for stocks in 1929 within three days, followed by a panic, is a matter of record. He

--- PAGE 3 of 3 ---

[OCR] time cycles, 1992 will mark the 90-year, 60-year and |O-year anniversaries of the 1902,1932, and
1982 lows (Figures 3-4). This is an important year to watch for final lows.

During the bear markets in the years 1890,1900,1910,1930,1970 and 1980 only brief short
covering rallies occurred. In each year, these rallies were completed between August and
September, and were followed by the resumption of the bear moves. Using these cycles as
proxies for what to expect in our current market, the August 1990 rally highs in silver offered
an ideal opportunity to enter short positions. As Gann would say, you do not have to guess
what the market will do, you know.

Other market classics this year have been the zero year major lows in T-Bills prices
(1920,1960,1970 and 1980), the zero year bull market blow-off and final top in cotton (1880,
189(), 1900, 1920, and 1980) and the zero year blow-off in crude oil (1890, 1920 and 1980).
Soybeans have been the only market with mixed signals, and this probably explains the trading
range we have experienced since 1989.

Of particular interest to us over the next four years, is the potential for higher prices in gold.
This is the one commodity that provides us with a decidedly bullish argument based on the
yearly time cycles. By observing Homestake Mining (a gold stock) as a surrogate for gold when
the price of the physical metal was fixed until 1971, we have constructed a very bullish long
term argument for gold. Major lows in Homestake were made in 1890, 1909, }1920,1929,1950
and 1960 (Figures 56). Add to this the abandonment of the Gold Standard in 1861 and 1971,
and the likelihood exists for final bear market lows being in place. Based on these cycles, 1993
and 1994 should exhibit significant strength.

As an active researcher for twelve years in the techniques of W.D. Gann, it astounds me
how few of his disciples utilize the Master Time Factor. The biggest hurdle is acquiring the
historic price data necessary to make the forecasts. As Gann stated, “If | have the data, | can
use algebra and geometry and tell exactly by the theory of cycles when a certain thing is going
to occur again.” Once you have the data, making up a forecast is as simple as counting from
one to ten. Nothing could be simpler, or more valuable.

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 48710903-2-3-Gann-Short-Term-Market-Forecasting-via-Astrology.pdf
Total Pages: 37
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         60
Using Gann with Astrophysics to 
Validate turning points.
By Hans Hannula, Ph.D..
M
arket Astrophysics is an analysis approach that I have developed over the last decade 
which produces a set of turning point dates based on a computer model of the physical 
universe. It is the purpose of this article to explain how I use Gann techniques to 
help validate these turning the S&P or the XMI. I call these AstroDow two, three, and four 
points, which have turning points about once a week, once a month, and once a quarter 
respectively. Clusters of these points together are, like any cluster of cycle points, very good 
trading opportunities. Like most such turning points, the AstroDow points are average points 
and may be off by a few days. For the best trades, additional information is useful to rene 
Using Gann with Astrophysics to 
Validate turning points. 
By Hans Hannula, Ph.D.. 
which produces a set of turning point dates based on a computer model of the physical 
universe. It is the purpose of this article to explain how | use Gann techniques to 
help validate these turning the S&P or the XMI. | call these AstroDow two, three, and four 
points, which have turning points about once a week, once a month, and once a quarter 
respectively. Clusters of these points together are, like any cluster of cycle points, very good 
trading opportunities. Like most such turning points, the AstroDow points are average points 
and may be off by a few days. For the best trades, additional information is useful to refine 
M 
arket Astrophysics is an analysis approach that | have developed over the last decade 
550 
r— 550 
525 — 
t- 525 
500 + 
-- 500 
475 — 
P—- 475 
450 — 
P—- 450 
-ix 
425 4 
- 425 
400 — 
L— 400 
375 
P~ 375 
350 
-— 350 
ae 
k}— 6 MONTHS ——————~ 
#4 3 MONTHS. ——> 
rae 
300 
TELL ET EYEE CEES SPREE EEE YE EE REE 
Ee OTe Ese BEY ERD 300 
0 
0 
@Qon@o-~-o-490 
Ao oo8-~~so~om 
Mopoi~4oO~ 
44 
MwMoO2~20~N4 
NOG ek a eh SS 
NOOow—~40-NO 
me OO 
et at OS 
NOwOow~—~40-nAoO 
SOW 
-~ 4 O-~ ONS 
N@MOI~A0-~ 
M0 
NOwe--4-O- 
NO 
NOOO 
at a O~ OD 
NWO HO-~ O48 
NOW HO~ 44 
MOOa~Ao~ 
wo 
OO 
4 ~41O~ oO 
FIGURE 1. MAJOR MARKET INDEX 
Traders World 
60

--- PAGE 2 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         61
the timing and verify the point as a high or a low. Figure 1 is a daily chart (15 months shown) 
of the XMI points, thereby increasing signicantly the odds of a correct trade. While applied 
here to the turning points I derive, this same validating approach can and should be used 
with any turning point system.
Turning point systems produce dates likely to be points of trend change, without necessarily 
calling for a high or a low. In my case, I have dates representing three cycles contained in the 
Dow or similar market averages, such as a losing trade. Further, if the market behaved normally, 
it could be expected to return to line C before a top was in place. I began looking for such a 
top as the summer progressed, and had noted the resistance offered by 1:1 line F. As August 
approached, I had an AstroDow cluster of an AD2 on 8/24 and an AD3 on 8/27. The latter was 
exactly one year from the 8/27/86 high from which line C originated. As the price action formed, 
it exactly touched line C on 8/13 and 8/25, the latter being within the AstroDow turning point 
cluster. Further analysis showed that this point was three months and a few days from 5/20, as 
well as at 541, exactly on the 180 degree angle on the Square of Nine. Going short for a return 
to at least line A was a high probability trade, with a stop at 543.
In both of these cases, I had used AstroDow turning point clusters to come up with 
a hypothetical change in trend date. Then I used basic Gann lines, time cycles, and the 
Square of Nine to conrm the hypothesis. This systematic application of Gann’s work to 
support my own work allowed me to trade both of these points correctly and protably. I also 
recognized the coming crash when line B was broken, but that’s another story for another 
time. Meanwhile, if you trade any sort of turning point system, try supporting it with this 
trio of Gann techniques. 
In mid May, 1987, as the market was declining, I was awaiting a major turn, based on 
having a triple cluster of AstroDow points. I had an AD2 point 5/25, an AD3 on 5/26, and AD4 
on 5/24. All of these points were expected to be lows, because the prior point in each cycle 
was a high. By that time I also had a pretty solid up channel formed by lines A and C, with 
secondary channel bottom formed by line B. All of these are standard Gann 2:1 lines which rise 
1/2 point per-day. From the top on 4/7, I also had drawn the down sloping 1:1 line D. Where 
this line intersected line B on 5/20 could be a support area. Further checking of possible cycles 
(see [4]) reminded me that we were six months from the sharp Boesky low of 11/19/1986. So 
there I was, with everything saying a major bottom was about to happen, and possibly a few 
days earlier than the AstroDow cluster.
When the market made a low on 5/20, then closed higher 5/21, I knew that the probabilities 
that the major bottom was in place were very high, about as close to certainty as one can be in 
the market. Further, the XMI index, which follows the Gann Square of Nine nicely, bottomed at 
432, just one square off the 270 degree axis. It was possible to buy here with a very close stop, 
with little fear of  a losing trade. Further, if the market behaved normally, it could be expected 
to  return to line C before a top was in place. I began looking for such a top as the summer 
progressed, and had noted the resistance offered by 1:1 line F. As cluster of an AD2 on 
8/24 and an AD3 on 8/27. The latter was exactly one year  from the 8/27/86 high from which 
line C originated. As the price action formed, it exactly touched line C on 8/13 and 8/25, 
the latter being within the AstroDow turning point cluster. Further analysis showed that this 
point was  three months and a few days from 5/20, as well as at 541, exactly on the 180 
degree angle on the Square of Nine. Going short for a return to at least line A was a high 
probability trade, with a stop at 543.
the timing and verify the point as a high or a low. Figure 1 is a daily chart (15 months shown) 
of the XMI points, thereby increasing significantly the odds of a correct trade. While applied 
here to the turning points | derive, this same validating approach can and should be used 
with any turning point system. 
Turning point systems produce dates likely to be points of trend change, without necessarily 
calling for a high or a low. In my case, | have dates representing three cycles contained in the 
Dow or similar market averages, such as a losing trade. Further, if the market behaved normally, 
it could be expected to return to line C before a top was in place. | began looking for such a 
top as the summer progressed, and had noted the resistance offered by 1:1 line F. As August 
approached, | had an AstroDow cluster of an AD2 on 8/24 and an AD3 on 8/27. The latter was 
exactly one year from the 8/27/86 high from which line C originated. As the price action formed, 
it exactly touched line C on 8/13 and 8/25, the latter being within the AstroDow turning point 
cluster. Further analysis showed that this point was three months and a few days from 5/20, as 
well as at 541, exactly on the 180 degree angle on the Square of Nine. Going short for a return 
to at least line A was a high probability trade, with a stop at 543. 
In both of these cases, | had used AstroDow turning point clusters to come up with 
a hypothetical change in trend date. Then | used basic Gann lines, time cycles, and the 
Square of Nine to confirm the hypothesis. This systematic application of Gann’s work to 
support my own work allowed me to trade both of these points correctly and profitably. | also 
recognized the coming crash when line B was broken, but that’s another story for another 
time. Meanwhile, if you trade any sort of turning point system, try supporting it with this 
trio of Gann techniques. 
In mid May, 1987, as the market was declining, | was awaiting a major turn, based on 
having a triple cluster of AstroDow points. | had an AD2 point 5/25, an AD3 on 5/26, and AD4 
on 5/24. All of these points were expected to be lows, because the prior point in each cycle 
was a high. By that time | also had a pretty solid up channel formed by lines A and C, with 
secondary channel bottom formed by line B. All of these are standard Gann 2:1 lines which rise 
1/2 point per-day. From the top on 4/7, | also had drawn the down sloping 1:1 line D. Where 
this line intersected line B on 5/20 could be a support area. Further checking of possible cycles 
(see [4]) reminded me that we were six months from the sharp Boesky low of 11/19/1986. So 
there | was, with everything saying a major bottom was about to happen, and possibly a few 
days earlier than the AstroDow cluster. 
When the market made a low on 5/20, then closed higher 5/21, | Knew that the probabilities 
that the major bottom was in place were very high, about as close to certainty as one can be in 
the market. Further, the XMI index, which follows the Gann Square of Nine nicely, bottomed at 
432, just one square off the 270 degree axis. It was possible to buy here with a very close stop, 
with little fear of a losing trade. Further, if the market behaved normally, it could be expected 
to return to line C before a top was in place. | began looking for such a top as the summer 
progressed, and had noted the resistance offered by 1:1 line F. As cluster of an AD2 on 
8/24 and an AD3 on 8/27. The latter was exactly one year from the 8/27/86 high from which 
line C originated. As the price action formed, it exactly touched line C on 8/13 and 8/25, 
the latter being within the AstroDow turning point cluster. Further analysis showed that this 
point was three months and a few days from 5/20, as well as at 541, exactly on the 180 
degree angle on the Square of Nine. Going short for a return to at least line A was a high 
probability trade, with a stop at 543. 
Traders World 
61

--- PAGE 3 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         62
In both of these cases, I had used AstroDow turning point clusters to come up with a 
hypothetical change in trend date. Then I used basic Gann  lines, time cycles, and the Square 
of Nine to conrm the hypothesis. This systematic application of Gann’s work  to support my 
own work allowed me to  trade both of these points correctly and protably. I also recognized 
the coming crash when line B was broken, but that’s another story for another time. Meanwhile, 
if you trade any sort of turning point system, try supporting it with this trio of Gann techniques. 
You will  like the results. Happy Trading.
         
        
[I] Hans Hannula, “In Search of the Cause of Cycles”, Technical Analysis of Stocks and 
Commodities, March, 1987.
[2] Hans Hannula, “In Search of the Cause of Cycles”, expanded version reprinted in 
Cycles, Sep/Oct 1987.
[3] Hans Hannula, “In Search of the Cause of the Crash of 1987”, letter, Cycles, 
December, 1987.
[4] Bill McClaren, Gann Made Easy, Gann Theory Publishing, 1987.
Hans Hannula is president of MicroMedia, Box 33071, North Glenn, CO 80233, (303) 
452-5566. He is the discoverer of the Master Clock and creator of Market AstroPhysics.
In both of these cases, | had used AstroDow turning point clusters to come up with a 
hypothetical change in trend date. Then | used basic Gann lines, time cycles, and the Square 
of Nine to confirm the hypothesis. This systematic application of Gann’s work to support my 
own work allowed me to trade both of these points correctly and profitably. | also recognized 
the coming crash when line B was broken, but that’s another story for another time. Meanwhile, 
if you trade any sort of turning point system, try supporting it with this trio of Gann techniques. 
You will like the results. Happy Trading. 
[I] Hans Hannula, “In Search of the Cause of Cycles”, Technical Analysis of Stocks and 
Commodities, March, 1987. 
[2] Hans Hannula, “In Search of the Cause of Cycles”, expanded version reprinted in 
Cycles, Sep/Oct 1987. 
[3] Hans Hannula, “In Search of the Cause of the Crash of 1987”, letter, Cycles, 
December, 1987. 
[4] Bill McClaren, Gann Made Easy, Gann Theory Publishing, 1987. 
Hans Hannula is president of MicroMedia, Box 33071, North Glenn, CO 80233, (303) 
452-5566. He is the discoverer of the Master Clock and creator of Market AstroPhysics. 
Traders World 
62

--- PAGE 4 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         63
Beyond Gann: Biblical Cycles
By Gregory Legrand Meadors
I
n recent months, we have heard a great deal about astrology, especially the role it has played 
in the White House. This began a nationwide media focus on astrology, and its use in the 
nancial markets. When you consider the nancial power of foreign investors, many who use 
astrology, it should not surprise you that the markets often reect astrological timing methods. 
Financial astrologers had information available to precisely forecast both the exact August 
top and the October crash! Why then, are the astrologers sometimes wrong? Perhaps if we 
look to W.D. Gann, the legendary nancial predictor, we may nd the answer. We know 
that Gann did not reveal his most valuable knowledge in his stock and commodity courses. 
For example, only through his writings did he advise students to read the Bible three times 
to obtain knowledge.
W. D. Gann did not rely on only one system to predict price movements. He used a variety 
of techniques, such as astronomical cycles which many astrologers fail to use. For example, 
Jupiter’s position at the exact Dow low in August 1982 was at three degrees Scorpio. Jupiter’s 
rst opposition (180 degrees, 1/2 circle, cycle) to this sensitive degree (for the Dow) in the 
heavens was on March 22, 1988. A trend change occurred at this time!
Some of the more “modem” theories of market forecasting actually are mathematical 
principles that have ancient esoteric sources. For example, one theory uses the mathematical 
Fibonacci ratio which is revealed in the Great Pyramid. The problem with this approach is not 
accuracy, but rather reliance on only one forecasting method. Many followers of this method 
were looking for the Dow to explode during 1987 and reach the target of 3600. Because of their 
lack of knowledge of Biblical and astronomical cycles (some of these are also revealed in the 
Beyond Gann: Biblical Cycles 
By Gregory Legrand Meadors 
n recent months, we have heard a great deal about astrology, especially the role it has played 
in the White House. This began a nationwide media focus on astrology, and its use in the 
financial markets. When you consider the financial power of foreign investors, many who use 
astrology, it should not surprise you that the markets often reflect astrological timing methods. 
Financial astrologers had information available to precisely forecast both the exact August 
top and the October crash! Why then, are the astrologers sometimes wrong? Perhaps if we 
look to W.D. Gann, the legendary financial predictor, we may find the answer. We know 
that Gann did not reveal his most valuable knowledge in his stock and commodity courses. 
For example, only through his writings did he advise students to read the Bible three times 
to obtain knowledge. 
W. D. Gann did not rely on only one system to predict price movements. He used a variety 
of techniques, such as astronomical cycles which many astrologers fail to use. For example, 
Jupiter’s position at the exact Dow low in August 1982 was at three degrees Scorpio. Jupiter’s 
first opposition (180 degrees, 1/2 circle, cycle) to this sensitive degree (for the Dow) in the 
heavens was on March 22, 1988. A trend change occurred at this time! 
Some of the more “modem” theories of market forecasting actually are mathematical 
principles that have ancient esoteric sources. For example, one theory uses the mathematical 
Fibonacci ratio which is revealed in the Great Pyramid. The problem with this approach is not 
accuracy, but rather reliance on only one forecasting method. Many followers of this method 
were looking for the Dow to explode during 1987 and reach the target of 3600. Because of their 
lack of knowledge of Biblical and astronomical cycles (some of these are also revealed in the 
9 
DOW JONES JUN/SEPT 1986 | 
i 
} 
1986 
1970 
j 
; 
i | 
W970. 
5 
i954 
i 
. 
UL 
; 
: 
: 
: 
Venus trine (120°) 
ba 
; 
Ei 
i 
1938 
| uranus cycle high 
ee 
| GANN SQUARE OF |) 
{ 
July 2, 1986 
fet 
PRICE AND TIME 
‘ 
4 
1922 
= 
3 
1 
_i 
1906 
| 
alt 
‘906 
rt ! 
__| sep 11, 1986 
H 
4 } 
il 
, 
PUT OPTIONS 
1890 
ty 
534% PROFIT 
,| 
a. 
| i ] 
bs 
Ih 
(MASTER KEY) 
era hal j ify 
AAG aeiee Ea 
A (sc 
tesa | 
AG 
| 
i 
“NT le 
1842 
/ I 
4 
a 
| 
J 
| 
dl 
-] 
‘| 
q 
| 
1826 
i 
; 
| 
(| 
4 
i 
1810 
4 
j 
an Oe 
a 
447. 
= 
1 
1794 
i 
Eq 
| 
| 
1 
] 
i 
{| 
’ 
tb! 2 
‘ 
, 
1 
‘ 
4 
4 
1278 
| New Moon i 
3 
Sd ee PS 
37 
WET 
1246 
7 
j 
j= 
|B 
i 
1730 
ae} + 
: 
i 
hi730 
ji 
Ji 
liz 
fem Es 
ho 
2 i i 
@ 
L. 
1698 
re 
< 
© 
: 
1662]. 
: 
“4 GRAPH BY GANNTRADER ———+—-~—--- 
1866 
i 
‘ 
| 
{ 
lLeso 
I. 
This is a perfect example of several "vibrations" coming together to form the Gann "Square of Price & Time”. The Dow tops out on July 
2, 1986 when Venus forms the 120 degree angle with Uranus (1). The Dow often moves up for two weeks and then declines when the 
120 degree angle is exact (this bi-annual cycle recently occurred on 3/27/86, 7/2/86, 5/13/87, 8/17/87, and 3/06/88). The Dow drops 180 
points (reversal number) in 22 trading days into the new moon (2). The Dow then advances (positive planetary cycles) 180 points in 22 
trading days completing the "Square of Price & Time" (3) for the high in 1986. A master timing key is revealed in the first three scrip- 
tures of Jonah which precisely timed the October 19, 1987. 508 point crash; it also timed the September 11, 1986 record breaking drop 
A). 
Traders World 
63

--- PAGE 5 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         64
Great Pyramid), their myopic forecast doomed them to major losses when the Dow reversed 
unexpectedly into the October Crash.
The top of the market in August 1987 and the October Crash were forecasted months 
in advance in my Market Systems March 1987 newsletter. The reason these moves were 
predictable was that they were confirmed by astrological (see the article “Gann and the 
Planets,” August/September issue of the Gann & Elliott Wave), astronomical, numerological, 
and other time cycles that are found in one of the most enlightening sources that Gann 
recommended the BIBLE!
Many people have been misled about the nancial markets by brokerage rms, nancial 
news, etc.; and misled about Scripture by some religious viewpoints. Many know about the 
“three” wise men who followed the star which shone above the manger where baby Jesus was 
born. Yet Scripture clearly states that the (many) Magi (astrologers) visited Jesus when he was 
a “young child” in a house! (Matt. 2:11) During that time Jupiter (royal star) and Saturn (Israel) 
came together in a bright conjunction in the sign of Pisces (symbolized by two sh; Jesus feeds 
5000 with two sh). This conjunction was probably located in the “Midheaven (Zenith)” of Jesus’ 
birth chart which would explain the “star above the house of Jesus” as the misunderstood 
astrologer’s reference to a “star in the Midheaven House.”
Scripture does state that you are not to worship or serve the stars (as gods or idols). Many 
believe therefore, that obtaining knowledge from the heavens (astrology) is evil. Yet Scriptures 
also state that God uses the heavens for signs and to provide knowledge to those who have 
wisdom and understanding. “And God said, Let there be lights in the rmament of the heaven 
to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, 
and years.” (Genesis 1:14). Note the scriptures Genesis 15:5 and Genesis 37:5-10. Jacob 
did not respond to Joseph’s rst dream but recognized the importance of the second dream 
when God used the sun, moon, and stars to represent Jacob, his wife, and children. According 
to the book Astrological Secrets of the Hebrew Sages, by Rabbi Dobin, all the astrological 
and astronomical references in the Old Testament of the Bible would be equivalent to over 
two full pages of the New York Times!
The Biblical view, of course, is that God is Omniscient and Supreme, and the inuences of 
the heavens only provide an indication of His Divine Will. “Can you bind the sweet inuences of 
Pleiades (cluster of stars), or loose the bands of Orion? Can you lead forth Mazzaroth (signs of 
the Zodiac) in their season? Or can you guide Arcturus (the stars of the Bear) with her young 
(satellites)? Do you know the ordinances of heaven? Can you establish their rule upon the 
earth?” (Job 38:31-33) “The Heavens declare the glory of God, and the rmament shows and 
proclaims His handiwork. Day after day pour forth speech, and night unto night shows forth 
knowledge. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.” (Psalms 19:1-3) 
Thus everyone can see God’s pattern of creation in the heavens. “They fought from heaven: the 
Great Pyramid), their myopic forecast doomed them to major losses when the Dow reversed 
unexpectedly into the October Crash. 
The top of the market in August 1987 and the October Crash were forecasted months 
in advance in my Market Systems March 1987 newsletter. The reason these moves were 
predictable was that they were confirmed by astrological (see the article “Gann and the 
Planets,” August/September issue of the Gann & Elliott Wave), astronomical, numerological, 
and other time cycles that are found in one of the most enlightening sources that Gann 
recommended the BIBLE! 
Many people have been misled about the financial markets by brokerage firms, financial 
news, etc.; and misled about Scripture by some religious viewpoints. Many know about the 
“three” wise men who followed the star which shone above the manger where baby Jesus was 
born. Yet Scripture clearly states that the (many) Magi (astrologers) visited Jesus when he was 
a “young child” in a house! (Matt. 2:11) During that time Jupiter (royal star) and Saturn (Israel) 
came together in a bright conjunction in the sign of Pisces (symbolized by two fish; Jesus feeds 
5000 with two fish). This conjunction was probably located in the “Midheaven (Zenith)” of Jesus’ 
birth chart which would explain the “star above the house of Jesus” as the misunderstood 
astrologer’s reference to a “star in the Midheaven House.” 
Scripture does state that you are not to worship or serve the stars (as gods or idols). Many 
believe therefore, that obtaining knowledge from the heavens (astrology) is evil. Yet Scriptures 
also state that God uses the heavens for signs and to provide knowledge to those who have 
wisdom and understanding. “And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven 
to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, 
and years.” (Genesis 1:14). Note the scriptures Genesis 15:5 and Genesis 37:5-10. Jacob 
did not respond to Joseph’s first dream but recognized the importance of the second dream 
when God used the sun, moon, and stars to represent Jacob, his wife, and children. According 
to the book Astrological Secrets of the Hebrew Sages, by Rabbi Dobin, all the astrological 
and astronomical references in the Old Testament of the Bible would be equivalent to over 
two full pages of the New York Times! 
The Biblical view, of course, is that God is Omniscient and Supreme, and the influences of 
the heavens only provide an indication of His Divine Will. “Can you bind the sweet influences of 
Pleiades (cluster of stars), or loose the bands of Orion? Can you lead forth Mazzaroth (signs of 
the Zodiac) in their season? Or can you guide Arcturus (the stars of the Bear) with her young 
(satellites)? Do you know the ordinances of heaven? Can you establish their rule upon the 
earth?” (Job 38:31-33) “The Heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows and 
proclaims His handiwork. Day after day pour forth speech, and night unto night shows forth 
knowledge. There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.” (Psalms 19:1-3) 
Thus everyone can see God's pattern of creation in the heavens. “They fought from heaven: the 
Traders World 
64

--- PAGE 6 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         65
stars (planets) in their courses fought against Sisera.” (Judges 5:20)
In the nancial markets the length of days before a trend change is critical for market timing. 
“Happy is the man that ndeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding    Length of days 
is her right hand, and in her left hand riches and honor  The Lord by wisdom hath founded the 
earth; by understanding hath He established the heavens.” (Prov. 3:13-19)
Mars entered the sign Gemini on April 6, 1987 exactly timing the double top on the Dow. 
The length of days in this sign ended when Mars left Gemini and entered Cancer on May 21, 
1987 exactly timing the length of days of this correction!
In the last issue I explained how the widely advertised Harmonic (planetary) Convergence 
(see Newsweek: 8/17/87) exactly timed the top in the Dow and why the October 6, 1987 
lunar eclipse timed the start of the October crash. It amazes me how some can ignore these 
correlations. What could be more natural than the precision timing and mathematical beauty 
of cosmic cycles to time earthly cycles? Consider the moon, that faithful witness, whose axis 
rotation exactly equals the time it takes to circle the earth. (Psalm 89:37)
The Earth is a magnet, which is surrounded by a vast sea of electromagnetic energy. Most 
of this energy comes from the sun. Humans also produce electromagnetic energy through 
their nervous systems. Water covers most of the Earth and our bodies are mostly water. The 
moon affects the water on Earth (tides), and eclipses have a drastic effect upon the earth’s 
magnetic eld. Is it illogical to conclude that these cosmic events could also have an effect on 
human behavior and (investor) psychology? Where does the word “lunatic” come from? Johann 
Kepler,known as one of the founders of modern astronomy stated: “The planets forming angles 
(aspects) upon the earth by their luminous beams, of strength to stir up the virtue of sublunary 
things, have compelled my unwilling belief.”
Two of the more interesting references in the Bible for nancial information are the 1 1/2 and 
3 1/2 year Biblical cycles. In Revelation the 3 1/2 year cycle is conjoined with the 12 signs of the 
stars (planets) in their courses fought against Sisera.” (Judges 5:20) 
In the financial markets the length of days before a trend change is critical for market timing. 
“Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding Length of days 
is her right hand, and in her left hand riches and honor The Lord by wisdom hath founded the 
earth; by understanding hath He established the heavens.” (Prov. 3:13-19) 
Mars entered the sign Gemini on April 6, 1987 exactly timing the double top on the Dow. 
The length of days in this sign ended when Mars left Gemini and entered Cancer on May 21, 
1987 exactly timing the length of days of this correction! 
In the last issue | explained how the widely advertised Harmonic (planetary) Convergence 
(see Newsweek: 8/17/87) exactly timed the top in the Dow and why the October 6, 1987 
lunar eclipse timed the start of the October crash. It amazes me how some can ignore these 
correlations. What could be more natural than the precision timing and mathematical beauty 
of cosmic cycles to time earthly cycles? Consider the moon, that faithful witness, whose axis 
rotation exactly equals the time it takes to circle the earth. (Psalm 89:37) 
The Earth is a magnet, which is surrounded by a vast sea of electromagnetic energy. Most 
of this energy comes from the sun. Humans also produce electromagnetic energy through 
their nervous systems. Water covers most of the Earth and our bodies are mostly water. The 
moon affects the water on Earth (tides), and eclipses have a drastic effect upon the earth’s 
magnetic field. Is it illogical to conclude that these cosmic events could also have an effect on 
human behavior and (investor) psychology? Where does the word “lunatic” come from? Johann 
Kepler,known as one of the founders of modern astronomy stated: “The planets forming angles 
(aspects) upon the earth by their luminous beams, of strength to stir up the virtue of sublunary 
things, have compelled my unwilling belief.” 
Two of the more interesting references in the Bible for financial information are the 1 1/2 and 
3 1/2 year Biblical cycles. In Revelation the 3 1/2 year cycle is conjoined with the 12 signs of the 
t aah. ate 7 a 
“A a a 
io 
; ar scaetiags} = 
= Le? Tt 
pen 
F 
= 
cle _4—- Standard & Poor's 100 Stock index (08%). 300 
2 SOLD 
: 
8/21/87) 
™, 
“cua BY TRE DLINE| re) ea 
200 a 
ers 
ese peace 
i Eeeeeaeneerae ts 
ca) 
Las abuse be 
Sar shen ae 
rep 
v3 
* aan 
ree 7 oo 1 ape. a tae (od yucy i Aus. 1 strr Flt 
ocr are 
NOV. ak 
‘oat | aan Y 
Tete 
We purchased the leveraged OEX August call index options at 2 1/2 on 8/10/87 (1) and sold them at expiration on 8/21/87 (2) for 10 
generating a 300% profit in two weeks. We also sold the IBM September call options (purchased on 8/7/87) on 8/24/87 (the exact high) 
or a 250% profit! We then sold SHORT the OEX September calls on 8-27-87 (3) and the October OEX calls at the lunar eclipse on 
10/6/87 (4) gencrating maximum profits on our SHORT positions. 
Traders World 
65

--- PAGE 7 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         66
zodiac as well as the sun, moon, and stars: “A great and wondrous sign appeared in heaven: a 
woman clothed with the U.N., with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars  and his 
tail swept away one third of the stars of heaven... She had a place prepared by God, so that there 
she might be nourished for 1260 days (3 1/2 years).” (Rev. 12:1-6)
The astronomical and nancial signicance of these scriptures points to the Saros eclipse 
cycles. Saros (meaning “repetition”) refers to the name of the complete cycle of eclipses, for 
it was noticed that the eclipses would return to the exact location in each of the 12 signs of 
the zodiac every 6585 and one-third days. The rotation of the earth for the extra one-third day 
causes one-third of the background stars (that are visible on the previous eclipse cycle) to be 
“swept” from view. A complete series of Saros eclipse cycles occurs every 1260 years. According 
to Van Nostrand’s Scientic Encyclopedia, this was known by the Babylonians as early as 1000 
B.C. The correlation of these Scriptures with the Saros eclipse cycles is unmistakable. Notice 
that when you multiply 360 (degrees of a circle) by the Biblical 3 1/2 measure you obtain both 
the Saros eclipse and Biblical number 1260.
One might be thinking at this point, “What does this have to do with the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average?” When you multiply the Biblical 1260 days by the I 1/2 time cycle you 
obtain 1890 days. Add this length of days to the start of the bull market in August 1982 and 
you have the start of the October 1987 crash! Multiply the August 1982 closing low of 777 
(7 represents completion) by the 3 1/2 cycle and you obtain 2719.50, within three points of 
the 2722 Dow Jones August 1987 all time high! We sold all long positions at the high on 
the August 24, 1987 new moon. Our IBM call options generated over 250% prot. We then 
shorted the OEX on August 27, 1987.
In his book, Truth of the Stock Tape. Gann states that he used astrology and made 
forecasts based upon the numerical values of letters in a name. Few understand what Gann 
meant, and yet, most people are familiar with the “number of the beast (666)”, depicted in “The 
Omen” series of movies. “Here is wisdom. Let him that has understanding count the number 
of the beast; for it is the number of a man; and his number is 666.” (Revelation 13:18) If you 
count the numerical value of the “NEW
YORK STOCK EXCHANGE INCORPORATED, WALL ST, NEW YORK, NEW YORK” using 
standard numerical values (a=l, b=2, i=9,j=l) you will end up with 666! For example, “WALL 
ST” equals (5+1+3+3+1+2) = 15 = 6.
(John 1:1), but he does not reveal all his “pearls of wisdom” (Matthew 7:6). Consider the 
words “prot” and “prophet” which have the same sound “vibration”. In The Tunnel Thru the 
Air, Gann states that the Biblical story of the prophet Jonah contains many “keys” to market 
timing. The words in the rst three verses of Jonah reveal a priceless time cycle “key” to 
those who have Biblical knowledge. This “key” precisely timed the record breaking 86 point 
drop on 9/11/86 (options paid 5 34%) and the record 508 point drop on 10/19/1987 (options 
paid over 100 to I). This market timing “key” applies to stock and commodity markets and is 
included in my Market Timing Course.
Remember, “There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under heaven: A 
time to be born and a time to die, A time to plant and a time to uproot . . . A time to get, and a time 
to lose    (Ecclesiastes 3:1). There is also a time to buy and a time to sell!
Mr. Meadors is Director of Research at Genesis Capital Management and editor of the monthly 
Market Systems Newsletter. He is also the author of the Market Timing Course. 2761 Manseld 
Dr., Burbank, Ca. 91504 818-954-8595.
zodiac as well as the sun, moon, and stars: “A great and wondrous sign appeared in heaven: a 
woman clothed with the U.N., with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars and his 
tail swept away one third of the stars of heaven... She had a place prepared by God, so that there 
she might be nourished for 1260 days (3 1/2 years).” (Rev. 12:1-6) 
The astronomical and financial significance of these scriptures points to the Saros eclipse 
cycles. Saros (meaning “repetition”) refers to the name of the complete cycle of eclipses, for 
it was noticed that the eclipses would return to the exact location in each of the 12 signs of 
the zodiac every 6585 and one-third days. The rotation of the earth for the extra one-third day 
causes one-third of the background stars (that are visible on the previous eclipse cycle) to be 
“swept” from view. A complete series of Saros eclipse cycles occurs every 1260 years. According 
to Van Nostrand’s Scientific Encyclopedia, this was known by the Babylonians as early as 1000 
B.C. The correlation of these Scriptures with the Saros eclipse cycles is unmistakable. Notice 
that when you multiply 360 (degrees of a circle) by the Biblical 3 1/2 measure you obtain both 
the Saros eclipse and Biblical number 1260. 
One might be thinking at this point, “What does this have to do with the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average?” When you multiply the Biblical 1260 days by the | 1/2 time cycle you 
obtain 1890 days. Add this length of days to the start of the bull market in August 1982 and 
you have the start of the October 1987 crash! Multiply the August 1982 closing low of 777 
(7 represents completion) by the 3 1/2 cycle and you obtain 2719.50, within three points of 
the 2722 Dow Jones August 1987 all time high! We sold all long positions at the high on 
the August 24, 1987 new moon. Our IBM call options generated over 250% profit. We then 
shorted the OEX on August 27, 1987. 
In his book, Truth of the Stock Tape. Gann states that he used astrology and made 
forecasts based upon the numerical values of letters in a name. Few understand what Gann 
meant, and yet, most people are familiar with the “number of the beast (666)”, depicted in “The 
Omen” series of movies. “Here is wisdom. Let him that has understanding count the number 
of the beast; for it is the number of a man; and his number is 666.” (Revelation 13:18) If you 
count the numerical value of the “NEW 
YORK STOCK EXCHANGE INCORPORATED, WALL ST, NEW YORK, NEW YORK’ using 
standard numerical values (a=I, b=2, i=9,j=l) you will end up with 666! For example, “WALL 
ST” equals (5+1+3+3+1+2) = 15 =6. 
(John 1:1), but he does not reveal all his “pearls of wisdom” (Matthew 7:6). Consider the 
words “profit” and “prophet” which have the same sound “vibration”. In The Tunnel Thru the 
Air, Gann states that the Biblical story of the prophet Jonah contains many “keys” to market 
timing. The words in the first three verses of Jonah reveal a priceless time cycle “key” to 
those who have Biblical knowledge. This “key” precisely timed the record breaking 86 point 
drop on 9/11/86 (options paid 5 34%) and the record 508 point drop on 10/19/1987 (options 
paid over 100 to I). This market timing “key” applies to stock and commodity markets and is 
included in my Market Timing Course. 
Remember, “There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under heaven: A 
time to be born and a time to die, A time to plant and a time to uproot... A time to get, and a time 
tolose 
(Ecclesiastes 3:1). There is also a time to buy and a time to sell! 
Mr. Meadors is Director of Research at Genesis Capital Management and editor of the monthly 
Market Systems Newsletter. He is also the author of the Market Timing Course. 2761 Mansfield 
Dr., Burbank, Ca. 91504 818-954-8595. 
Traders World 
66

--- PAGE 8 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         67
The Gann Side of Fibonacci Numbers
By Granville Cooley
F
orty-four is a Fibonacci number. Sixty-seven and one-half degrees is a Fibonacci number. 
Two-hundred and sixty-six is a Fibonacci number. Three-hundred and sixty degrees is 
a Fibonacci number. For those few of you who have never heard of Fibonacci numbers 
I can see you saying, “So what?”
For those of you who have “read” about the Fibonacci numbers, I can see you doing a double 
take. For those of you who are supposed to be Fibonacci experts, I can see your eyeballs rolled 
back, clicking in your head, and your feet up in the air as in a Mut and Jeff cartoon. The cartoon 
has a big balloon which reads, “He’s got it! He’s got it! By Gann, He’s got it!”
Those who have read about Fibonacci are saying, “What’s this Gann stuff? I thought 
Fibonacci has to do with Elliott Waves.”
It does, but there is also a Gann side to the Fibonacci phenomenon, sometimes apparent, 
but often not. It is quite possible that the Gann relationship to Fibonacci has been explored, 
but if so, I have seen little evidence of it.
I am talking about such things as:
(I)           The master numbers.
(2) 
The angles.
(3) 
The signs and seasons.
(4) 
The signs and degrees.
(5) 
The stone of Simon.
(6) 
The eighth square.
(7) 
The death zone and the circle.
(8) 
The wanderings and the pyramid.
(9) 
The Great Cycle of Enoch.
We could add more but that’s plenty for our purposes now. Let’s investigate the phenomenon 
of Fibonacci of the above nine items with what I call simple observational arithmetic.
I say that because persons who write on Elliott, Gann, and other math wizards are used to 
writing in mathematical terms, not always understood by the average person.
Like many of you, I had a little algebra and geometry in high school and a little algebra in 
college, but my eld for 20 years was journalism. And when you don’t have many reasons for 
using algebra and geometry over the years, it becomes hazy.
Books have been written on the markets by mathematicians showing the mathematical 
formulas behind certain systems. But they seem to be targeted for other mathematicians and 
those persons working with computers.
Those books are probably very good for those who understand the formulas, but one 
gentlemen, well known in the markets and considered a market genius in his own right, said 
he didn’t understand the books at all.
So methods I use might seem very elementary to those with a higher learning of math. If 
so, I ask them to bear along with those of us of less mathematical background as we explore 
the nine topics above in simple observational arithmetic.
The Gann Side of Fibonacci Numbers 
By Granville Cooley 
Two-hundred and sixty-six is a Fibonacci number. Three-hundred and sixty degrees is 
a Fibonacci number. For those few of you who have never heard of Fibonacci numbers 
| can see you saying, “So what?” 
For those of you who have “read” about the Fibonacci numbers, | can see you doing a double 
take. For those of you who are supposed to be Fibonacci experts, | can see your eyeballs rolled 
back, clicking in your head, and your feet up in the air as in a Mut and Jeff cartoon. The cartoon 
has a big balloon which reads, “He’s got it! He’s got it! By Gann, He’s got it!” 
Those who have read about Fibonacci are saying, “What’s this Gann stuff? | thought 
Fibonacci has to do with Elliott Waves.” 
It does, but there is also a Gann side to the Fibonacci phenomenon, sometimes apparent, 
but often not. It is quite possible that the Gann relationship to Fibonacci has been explored, 
but if so, | have seen little evidence of it. 
Fe ens 
is a Fibonacci number. Sixty-seven and one-half degrees is a Fibonacci number. 
am talking about such things as: 
The master numbers. 
The angles. 
The signs and seasons. 
The signs and degrees. 
The stone of Simon. 
The eighth square. 
The death zone and the circle. 
The wanderings and the pyramid. 
The Great Cycle of Enoch. 
~~ 
Pe a ee ei a et a ee 
ee 
O OND OB W PD 
YS— SS a 
a 
We could add more but that’s plenty for our purposes now. Let’s investigate the phenomenon 
of Fibonacci of the above nine items with what | call simple observational arithmetic. 
| say that because persons who write on Elliott, Gann, and other math wizards are used to 
writing in mathematical terms, not always understood by the average person. 
Like many of you, | had a little algebra and geometry in high school and a little algebra in 
college, but my field for 20 years was journalism. And when you don’t have many reasons for 
using algebra and geometry over the years, it becomes hazy. 
Books have been written on the markets by mathematicians showing the mathematical 
formulas behind certain systems. But they seem to be targeted for other mathematicians and 
those persons working with computers. 
Those books are probably very good for those who understand the formulas, but one 
gentlemen, well known in the markets and considered a market genius in his own right, said 
he didn’t understand the books at all. 
So methods | use might seem very elementary to those with a higher learning of math. If 
so, | ask them to bear along with those of us of less mathematical background as we explore 
the nine topics above in simple observational arithmetic. 
Traders World 
67

--- PAGE 9 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         68
In addition to not being a mathematician, I’m not an astrologer, astronomer, or Mason 
either. I’ve read a few books on such and can see some links with the Gann material, but 
that doesn’t make me an expert.
As I said before, my eld was journalism, and I’m no expert in that either so don’t look 
for a journalistic gem in this article.
My “arithmetic” approach to Gann was to run thousands of numbers through a calculator 
looking for patterns that showed up in math, astrology, astronomy, and Masonic books, was well 
as sundry other books. Those patterns provided the basis for several “discoveries.”
 Before moving on the nine topics above, let’s look at a couple of “amazing” facts that 
are noted by Fibonacci experts.
 One of the “amazing facts” is that the ratio of the rst term to the second term in a 
Fibonacci series is 1.618 and from the rst term to the third term is 2.618. They also like to 
tell us that if we divide the second term into the rst and multiply that times the 1.618 ratio, 
we will come up with the number one.
Let’s put down two groups of three Fibonacci numbers and a group of three non-Fibonacci 
numbers and see what we can nd by simple arithmetic observation.
Since all Fibonacci numbers do not t the 1.618 ratio exactly, let’s put down the ones that are 
the closest and eye ball them. The three numbers are 55, 89, and 144.
When we divide 55 into 89 we get 1.6181818. And when we divide 55 into the next higher 
Fibonacci number, 144, we get 2.6181818.
Now let’s look at another series not so perfect but yet of the same Fibonacci series, 
8,13, and 21. First, we divide 8 into 13 and get 1.625 and we divide 8 into the next higher 
number and get 2.625.
All very interesting. Now let’s look at some non-Fibonacci numbers picked at random. 
Let’s use the year 1988 and separate it into two numbers 19 and 88, and add the 19 to 
the 88 so we get the following sequence, 19, 88, and 107. Next, we nd the relationship 
between the rst number and the second, and the rst and the third, in the same way we 
did the other two sequences.
We divide 19 into 88 and get 4.6315789. When we divide 19 into 107 we get 5.63 
15789.
In all three cases above, the whole numbers changed when we divided the rst number into 
the second and then the third, but the decimal fraction did not. What’s going on here?
The mathematician is lighting his pipe and saying, “Elementary, my dear Watson, 
observe what you did.”
Let’s observe. In the rst sequence the division by 55 into 89 can be counted as one 
unit of 55 with 34 left over, and the fraction of 34 divided by 55 is .6181818. When we added 
55 to 89 to get 144, we simply added another unit of 55 to the pot which gives us two units 
of 55, or 110 with 34 left over.
That remainder of 34 divided by 55 will always be .6l81818. We could keep adding 55 to 
the pot and dividing by 55 till the cows come home and we would still end up with a remainder 
of 34. The whole number would grow but the decimal fraction would always be the same. 
Try it for yourself. It works every time.
Let’s look at the second sequence of 8, 13, and 21. When we divide 8 into 13 we get one 
unit of 8 plus 5 left over, which represents .625 of 8. When we add 8 to the 13 to get 21, we are 
simply adding another 8 to the pot. Dividing 8 into 21 we have two units of 8 with 5 left over and 
5 divided by 8 is still .635. We can add 8’s to the pot until the cows come home and divide by 8 
and still have a remainder of 5. It works every time.
In addition to not being a mathematician, I’m not an astrologer, astronomer, or Mason 
either. I’ve read a few books on such and can see some links with the Gann material, but 
that doesn’t make me an expert. 
As | said before, my field was journalism, and I’m no expert in that either so don’t look 
for a journalistic gem in this article. 
My “arithmetic” approach to Gann was to run thousands of numbers through a calculator 
looking for patterns that showed up in math, astrology, astronomy, and Masonic books, was well 
as sundry other books. Those patterns provided the basis for several “discoveries.” 
Before moving on the nine topics above, let’s look at a couple of “amazing” facts that 
are noted by Fibonacci experts. 
One of the “amazing facts” is that the ratio of the first term to the second term in a 
Fibonacci series is 1.618 and from the first term to the third term is 2.618. They also like to 
tell us that if we divide the second term into the first and multiply that times the 1.618 ratio, 
we will come up with the number one. 
Let’s put down two groups of three Fibonacci numbers and a group of three non-Fibonacci 
numbers and see what we can find by simple arithmetic observation. 
Since all Fibonacci numbers do not fit the 1.618 ratio exactly, let’s put down the ones that are 
the closest and eye ball them. The three numbers are 55, 89, and 144. 
When we divide 55 into 89 we get 1.6181818. And when we divide 55 into the next higher 
Fibonacci number, 144, we get 2.6181818. 
Now let’s look at another series not so perfect but yet of the same Fibonacci series, 
8,13, and 21. First, we divide 8 into 13 and get 1.625 and we divide 8 into the next higher 
number and get 2.625. 
All very interesting. Now let’s look at some non-Fibonacci numbers picked at random. 
Let's use the year 1988 and separate it into two numbers 19 and 88, and add the 19 to 
the 88 so we get the following sequence, 19, 88, and 107. Next, we find the relationship 
between the first number and the second, and the first and the third, in the same way we 
did the other two sequences. 
We divide 19 into 88 and get 4.6315789. When we divide 19 into 107 we get 5.63 
15789. 
In all three cases above, the whole numbers changed when we divided the first number into 
the second and then the third, but the decimal fraction did not. What’s going on here? 
The mathematician is lighting his pipe and saying, “Elementary, my dear Watson, 
observe what you did.” 
Let’s observe. In the first sequence the division by 55 into 89 can be counted as one 
unit of 55 with 34 left over, and the fraction of 34 divided by 55 is .6181818. When we added 
55 to 89 to get 144, we simply added another unit of 55 to the pot which gives us two units 
of 55, or 110 with 34 left over. 
That remainder of 34 divided by 55 will always be .6181818. We could keep adding 55 to 
the pot and dividing by 55 till the cows come home and we would still end up with a remainder 
of 34. The whole number would grow but the decimal fraction would always be the same. 
Try it for yourself. It works every time. 
Let’s look at the second sequence of 8, 13, and 21. When we divide 8 into 13 we get one 
unit of 8 plus 5 left over, which represents .625 of 8. When we add 8 to the 13 to get 21, we are 
simply adding another 8 to the pot. Dividing 8 into 21 we have two units of 8 with 5 left over and 
5 divided by 8 is still .635. We can add 8’s to the pot until the cows come home and divide by 8 
and still have a remainder of 5. It works every time. 
Traders World 
68

--- PAGE 10 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         69
In the third sequence of 19, 88, and 107, we divide 88 by 19 and get four units of 19 
which equal 76 with 12 left over. The remainder of 12 divided by 19 gives us the decimal 
fraction, .1635789. By adding 19 to 88 to get 107, we are simply adding 19 to the pot of 88 
and getting ve 19’s, or 95 with 12 left over. Need I tell you about the remainder of 12 and 
the cows again? It’s still working!
Now for the second “amazing fact” about Fibonacci numbers that the experts like to point 
out to us. The fact that when you multiply 1.618 by .618 you get one or to be more exact 
.999924. The reason why the multiplication does not equal one is because the two Fibonacci 
ratios have been rounded off.
The two Fibonacci ratios are obtained by dividing the smaller Fibonacci number into the 
larger and then the larger into the smaller. Let’s take the rst part of our rst example, 55 and 89. 
When we divide 89 by 55 we get l.6l81818 as before, and then we divide 55 by 89 and obtain .6 
179775. When we multiply the two results we get .9999999.
From our second example we can use 8 and 13. Dividing 8 into 13 we get 1.625 as before. 
Dividing 8 by 13 we get .6153846. Multiplying the two results we get .9999995.
Let’s pull a Dr. Watson and observe what we have done. In each case we divided a smaller 
number into a larger one and then the larger one into the smaller one and multiplied the results, 
getting a decimal number almost equal to one. The reason for it not being exactly one is the 
rounding off that has to be done.
So let’s express each of the numbers as fractions and then multiply. We can express 
89 divided by 55 as 89 over 55; and 55 divided by 89 as 55 over 89. We multiply and 
get 4895 over 4895. Any number over itself or divided by itself is always one. The same 
procedure for 8 and 13 gets us 104, over 104 or one. Ditto for 19 and 88 which equals 
1672 over 1672 or one.
In our review of the two properties of the Fibonacci sequence we have really found 
nothing magic or amazing. It is simply how our mathematical system works. Interesting, 
but not amazing.
Now let’s look at some of the other interesting properties of the Fibonacci sequence 
starting rst with the Master numbers.
(This is the rst  part of a longer report by Grandville Cooley. Those interested in seeing more of 
this material should write him at #71 Lone Oak Village, Paris, Tenn. 38242)
In the third sequence of 19, 88, and 107, we divide 88 by 19 and get four units of 19 
which equal 76 with 12 left over. The remainder of 12 divided by 19 gives us the decimal 
fraction, .1635789. By adding 19 to 88 to get 107, we are simply adding 19 to the pot of 88 
and getting five 19’s, or 95 with 12 left over. Need | tell you about the remainder of 12 and 
the cows again? It’s still working! 
Now for the second “amazing fact” about Fibonacci numbers that the experts like to point 
out to us. The fact that when you multiply 1.618 by .618 you get one or to be more exact 
.999924. The reason why the multiplication does not equal one is because the two Fibonacci 
ratios have been rounded off. 
The two Fibonacci ratios are obtained by dividing the smaller Fibonacci number into the 
larger and then the larger into the smaller. Let’s take the first part of our first example, 55 and 89. 
When we divide 89 by 55 we get 1.6181818 as before, and then we divide 55 by 89 and obtain .6 
179775. When we multiply the two results we get .9999999. 
From our second example we can use 8 and 13. Dividing 8 into 13 we get 1.625 as before. 
Dividing 8 by 13 we get .6153846. Multiplying the two results we get .9999995. 
Let’s pull a Dr. Watson and observe what we have done. In each case we divided a smaller 
number into a larger one and then the larger one into the smaller one and multiplied the results, 
getting a decimal number almost equal to one. The reason for it not being exactly one is the 
rounding off that has to be done. 
So let’s express each of the numbers as fractions and then multiply. We can express 
89 divided by 55 as 89 over 55; and 55 divided by 89 as 55 over 89. We multiply and 
get 4895 over 4895. Any number over itself or divided by itself is always one. The same 
procedure for 8 and 13 gets us 104, over 104 or one. Ditto for 19 and 88 which equals 
1672 over 1672 or one. 
In our review of the two properties of the Fibonacci sequence we have really found 
nothing magic or amazing. It is simply how our mathematical system works. Interesting, 
but not amazing. 
Now let’s look at some of the other interesting properties of the Fibonacci sequence 
starting first with the Master numbers. 
(This is the first part of a longer report by Grandville Cooley. Those interested in seeing more of 
this material should write him at #71 Lone Oak Village, Paris, Tenn. 38242) 
Traders World 
69

--- PAGE 11 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         70
Range Expansion
By Toby Crabel
T
his is a study of range expansion and its impact on the market. Other analysts have 
assumed that Range Expansion has an impact on price action on the day or days following 
range expansion. With the computer it becomes very easy to validate or invalidate this 
assumption. To begin with, it is necessary to set up a control or standard of comparison, so I 
borrowed from a previous study (Price Pattern Studies 1 - Bonds Open/Close Studies). In that 
study I tested all two, three, four, and ve-day patterns in the T-Bond market, 1978 -1986. In 
order to make a proper comparison, I did the exact same test with only one added variable, 
an expanding daily range relative to the previous day’s range on the second to the last day 
of each price pattern. From there it was possible to make direct comparisons between Price 
Pattern Studies (August/September issue of Gann & Elliott Wave) and the Price Pattern with 
the added variable of range expansion.
To briey review what Table A is showing, refer to Pattern #5. Simply, this pattern is two 
lower closings and a lower open. This is read from left to right. An entry is assumed on the open 
or the minus to the far right of the pattern. Exit was on the close of the same day, thus the same 
open to close patterns. All patterns are set up in the same manner, but as you can see, become 
more complex as more days are included. Regardless of the number of days, the (+) or (-) sign 
in the pattern is always relative to the day immediately preceding it, and are closings unless it is 
the last (+) or (-) sign in the pattern which is an open.
My conclusion from that comparison is that there is a denite bias in the direction of the 
range expansion the day immediately following. Over 75 percent of the time, the price pattern 
showed either a percentage protability favoring the bias of the range expansion, and/or an 
average win/loss ratio that made it clear that the range expansion was inuencing the price 
pattern. There was one problem with the comparison--there was an obvious upward bias 
throughout the period. This was reected in the inability of the range expansion to have an 
appreciable impact on patterns ending with (--) or (++).
In the control study, almost all patterns ending with (--) showed an upward bias from open 
to close. The same was true for the study on range expansion and in some cases it actually 
produced a better trade. This was contrary to expectations. Logically, the market should exhibit 
a bias in the direction of the range expansion, but in fact the range expansion seemed to be 
acting as a selling climax rather than a momentum increase.
This was bafing and the thought occurred to me that this was not a vigorous enough 
denition of range expansion. Consequently I decided to make a comparison between very 
simple two-day patterns and ve variables, one for each test (refer to Table B). The variables 
were: the narrowest range relative to the previous three days (NR3), Narrow Range relative 
to the previous day (NR), control which included all possible patterns either narrowing or 
expanding, Range Expansion relative to the previous day (RE), and a Range Expansion greater 
than the previous three days (RE3). There was thought to be enough of a contrast between 
Range Expansion 3 and Narrow Range 3 to give decisive evidence one way or the other on the 
Range expansion impact on subsequent price action.
The four patterns studied were: a higher close followed by a higher open (++), a lower close 
followed by a higher open (-+), a higher close followed by a lower open (+-), and a lower close 
Range Expansion 
By Toby Crabel 
assumed that Range Expansion has an impact on price action on the day or days following 
range expansion. With the computer it becomes very easy to validate or invalidate this 
assumption. To begin with, it is necessary to set up a control or standard of comparison, so | 
borrowed from a previous study (Price Pattern Studies 1 - Bonds Open/Close Studies). In that 
study | tested all two, three, four, and five-day patterns in the T-Bond market, 1978 -1986. In 
order to make a proper comparison, | did the exact same test with only one added variable, 
an expanding daily range relative to the previous day’s range on the second to the last day 
of each price pattern. From there it was possible to make direct comparisons between Price 
Pattern Studies (August/September issue of Gann & Elliott Wave) and the Price Pattern with 
the added variable of range expansion. 
To briefly review what Table A is showing, refer to Pattern #5. Simply, this pattern is two 
lower closings and a lower open. This is read from left to right. An entry is assumed on the open 
or the minus to the far right of the pattern. Exit was on the close of the same day, thus the same 
open to close patterns. All patterns are set up in the same manner, but as you can see, become 
more complex as more days are included. Regardless of the number of days, the (+) or (-) sign 
in the pattern is always relative to the day immediately preceding it, and are closings unless it is 
the last (+) or (-) sign in the pattern which is an open. 
My conclusion from that comparison is that there is a definite bias in the direction of the 
range expansion the day immediately following. Over 75 percent of the time, the price pattern 
showed either a percentage profitability favoring the bias of the range expansion, and/or an 
average win/loss ratio that made it clear that the range expansion was influencing the price 
pattern. There was one problem with the comparison--there was an obvious upward bias 
throughout the period. This was reflected in the inability of the range expansion to have an 
appreciable impact on patterns ending with (--) or (++). 
In the control study, almost all patterns ending with (--) showed an upward bias from open 
to close. The same was true for the study on range expansion and in some cases it actually 
produced a better trade. This was contrary to expectations. Logically, the market should exhibit 
a bias in the direction of the range expansion, but in fact the range expansion seemed to be 
acting as a selling climax rather than a momentum increase. 
This was baffling and the thought occurred to me that this was not a vigorous enough 
definition of range expansion. Consequently | decided to make a comparison between very 
simple two-day patterns and five variables, one for each test (refer to Table B). The variables 
were: the narrowest range relative to the previous three days (NR3), Narrow Range relative 
to the previous day (NR), control which included all possible patterns either narrowing or 
expanding, Range Expansion relative to the previous day (RE), and a Range Expansion greater 
than the previous three days (RE3). There was thought to be enough of a contrast between 
Range Expansion 3 and Narrow Range 3 to give decisive evidence one way or the other on the 
Range expansion impact on subsequent price action. 
The four patterns studied were: a higher close followed by a higher open (++), a lower close 
followed by a higher open (-+), a higher close followed by a lower open (+-), and a lower close 
T= 
is a study of range expansion and its impact on the market. Other analysts have 
Traders World 
70

--- PAGE 12 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         71
followed by a lower open (--). I assumed that a simple comparison between the NR3 and the 
RE3 in each pattern group would give me the information that I was looking for. In the case of the 
(±+) pattern both the NR3 and the RE3 were protable sales with similar win/loss ratios. The only 
difference was the amount of total prot which favored the NR3. This is logical and in the case of 
an expanding range to the upside and subsequent higher open (RE3) should not be as good a 
sale as on a day without as much denition preceding it. It was not totally conclusive.
A comparison of RE3 and NR3 in the (-±) shows some clear differences. Both are protable 
buys, but percentages favor the NR3 pattern and win/loss ratio with total prots obviously 
favoring the NR3 over the RE3. Again, this is logical for a day that exhibits an expanding range 
to the down-side theoretically is increasing momentum, and the subsequent higher open should 
not be as favorable a buy relative to a day lacking such denition. The clearest difference 
comes in the (+-) pattern where the protable trades are actually in the opposite direction. 
The narrowest range in three days followed by a lower open proved to be a protable sale 61 
percent of the time, with a win/loss ratio of 1.17 :1, and total prots of $15,18l. The same pattern 
with the largest range in three days to the upside prior to a lower open proved a protable buy 
48 percent of the time with 1.10 : win/loss ratio and prots of $417. Total prots obviously are 
not dramatic in the case of the buy on the RE3 pattern, but there is a distinct contrast between 
the RE3 and the NR3 supporting the conclusion that range expansion does have an impact on 
subsequent price action. Where it is not so clear is in the pattern of a lower close followed by a 
lower open (--) where a momentum increase actually produced a better buying opportunity than 
on a day where there was no such range expansion. This can be explained by the dominant 
upward bias throughout the test period.
Nonetheless, it still seemed inconclusive that a range expansion was consistently impacting 
the subsequent price action. Therefore a third test sequence was done, this time taking into 
account only a higher close or a lower close. Again the variables of an expanding range relative 
to the previous three days, and a narrowing range relative to the previous three days were used 
in a direct comparison between the two. Entry was on close to open (C/O) and close to close 
(C/C) for either an overnight trade into the next day’s open or a trade from the given day’s close 
into the next day’s close. The thought here was that if range expansion was actually affecting 
the price action it would most likely show up from close to open, and if it was a particularly strong 
affect it would carry into close of the next day. On a lower close and the close to open trade, the 
RE3 proved to be a better sale in all respects except for a slight difference in win/loss ratio. A 
lower close with a close to close trade showed buys for both RE3 and NR3, but as expected the 
NR3 proved to be the better buy with win/loss ratio and total prots reective of this. In the case 
of a close to open trade, after a higher close there was a distinct difference favoring a buy in 
the direction of an RE3 over that of an NR3. In the case of a close to close trade after a higher 
close, the RE3 actually reected a protable buy, whereas the NR3 was a protable sale, clearly 
demonstrating the RE3’s affect on the following day’s price action. From the tests exhibited 
in Table C and Table B, it is clear that the open acts as a climactic element in the price 
pattern. My observation is that most of the prots were made on the close to open trade, 
not on the open to close trade. In fact, the momentum increase had run its course by the 
time of the next day’s open. This would suggest that if one was interested in trading in the 
direction of a momentum increase, one should consider prot--taking on the next day’s open 
after the range expansion.
These tests conclusively support the concept of range expansion affecting subsequent 
price action, but there are some difculties as demonstrated and it would appear that prot 
margins drop considerably the longer one is in the trade after the momentum increase. Also, 
followed by a lower open (--). 
| assumed that a simple comparison between the NR3 and the 
RE3 in each pattern group would give me the information that | was looking for. In the case of the 
(++) pattern both the NR3 and the RE3 were profitable sales with similar win/loss ratios. The only 
difference was the amount of total profit which favored the NR3. This is logical and in the case of 
an expanding range to the upside and subsequent higher open (RE3) should not be as good a 
sale as on a day without as much definition preceding it. It was not totally conclusive. 
A comparison of RE3 and NR3 in the (-t) shows some clear differences. Both are profitable 
buys, but percentages favor the NR3 pattern and win/loss ratio with total profits obviously 
favoring the NR3 over the RE3. Again, this is logical for a day that exhibits an expanding range 
to the down-side theoretically is increasing momentum, and the subsequent higher open should 
not be as favorable a buy relative to a day lacking such definition. The clearest difference 
comes in the (+-) pattern where the profitable trades are actually in the opposite direction. 
The narrowest range in three days followed by a lower open proved to be a profitable sale 61 
percent of the time, with a win/loss ratio of 1.17 :1, and total profits of $15,181. The same pattern 
with the largest range in three days to the upside prior to a lower open proved a profitable buy 
48 percent of the time with 1.10 : win/loss ratio and profits of $417. Total profits obviously are 
not dramatic in the case of the buy on the RE3 pattern, but there is a distinct contrast between 
the RE3 and the NR3 supporting the conclusion that range expansion does have an impact on 
subsequent price action. Where it is not so clear is in the pattern of a lower close followed by a 
lower open (--) where a momentum increase actually produced a better buying opportunity than 
on a day where there was no such range expansion. This can be explained by the dominant 
upward bias throughout the test period. 
Nonetheless, it still seemed inconclusive that a range expansion was consistently impacting 
the subsequent price action. Therefore a third test sequence was done, this time taking into 
account only a higher close or a lower close. Again the variables of an expanding range relative 
to the previous three days, and a narrowing range relative to the previous three days were used 
in a direct comparison between the two. Entry was on close to open (C/O) and close to close 
(C/C) for either an overnight trade into the next day’s open or a trade from the given day’s close 
into the next day’s close. The thought here was that if range expansion was actually affecting 
the price action it would most likely show up from close to open, and if it was a particularly strong 
affect it would carry into close of the next day. On a lower close and the close to open trade, the 
RE3 proved to be a better sale in all respects except for a slight difference in win/loss ratio. A 
lower close with a close to close trade showed buys for both RE3 and NR3, but as expected the 
NR3 proved to be the better buy with win/loss ratio and total profits reflective of this. In the case 
of a close to open trade, after a higher close there was a distinct difference favoring a buy in 
the direction of an RE3 over that of an NR3. In the case of a close to close trade after a higher 
close, the RE3 actually reflected a profitable buy, whereas the NR3 was a profitable sale, clearly 
demonstrating the RE3’s affect on the following day’s price action. From the tests exhibited 
in Table C and Table B, it is clear that the open acts as a climactic element in the price 
pattern. My observation is that most of the profits were made on the close to open trade, 
not on the open to close trade. In fact, the momentum increase had run its course by the 
time of the next day’s open. This would suggest that if one was interested in trading in the 
direction of 
a momentum increase, one should consider profit--taking on the next day’s open 
after the range expansion. 
These tests conclusively support the concept of range expansion affecting subsequent 
price action, but there are some difficulties as demonstrated and it would appear that profit 
margins drop considerably the longer one is in the trade after the momentum increase. Also, 
Traders World 
71

--- PAGE 13 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         72
and I think probably the most important piece of information taken from these tests, is that the 
trend is a stronger inuence than short-term momentum increase or decrease. In other words, 
the underlying intermediate long-term trend will take precedence over a momentum increase 
indicated by a range expansion against the trend. Range expansions with trend hold more 
signicance than if against trend. The psychology involved could be something as follows: In 
a strong up-trend, new shorts are constantly entering the market trying to pick the market top; 
the isolated range expansion to the down-side brings in more shorts; the high percentage open 
lower the following day and has very little follow through, and somewhere around mid-session 
after a bullish day, structure shorts begin to cover.
Emphasis should be placed on the necessity of integrating other market concepts along with 
range expansions. Without a rm grasp of the concept of day structure and a clear picture of the 
underlying trend, a trader will run into difculties using range expansion on its own.
Toby Crabel is a registered CTA and owner of Toby Crahel & Company. He publishes 
“Market Analytics - A Logical Approach to Futures Trading.” For more information contact 
tohy Crahel at RB&H Commodities, 1 -800-621-2503 or at Market Analytics, (813)275-1651. 
All correspondence should he sent to Tohy Crahel C!O RB&H Commodities, 30 S. Wacker, 
Suite 1912, Chicago, IL 60606.
and | think probably the most important piece of information taken from these tests, is that the 
trend is a stronger influence than short-term momentum increase or decrease. In other words, 
the underlying intermediate long-term trend will take precedence over a momentum increase 
indicated by a range expansion against the trend. Range expansions with trend hold more 
significance than if against trend. The psychology involved could be something as follows: In 
a strong up-trend, new shorts are constantly entering the market trying to pick the market top; 
the isolated range expansion to the down-side brings in more shorts; the high percentage open 
lower the following day and has very little follow through, and somewhere around mid-session 
after a bullish day, structure shorts begin to cover. 
Emphasis should be placed on the necessity of integrating other market concepts along with 
range expansions. Without a firm grasp of the concept of day structure and a clear picture of the 
underlying trend, a trader will run into difficulties using range expansion on its own. 
Toby Crabel is a registered CTA and owner of Toby Crahel & Company. He publishes 
“Market Analytics - A Logical Approach to Futures Trading.” For more information contact 
tohy Crahel at RB&H Commodities, 1 -800-621-2503 or at Market Analytics, (813)275-1651. 
All correspondence should he sent to Tohy Crahel C!'O RB&H Commodities, 30 S. Wacker, 
Suite 1912, Chicago, IL 60606. 
Traders World 
72

--- PAGE 14 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         73
Gann and the Circle 
By Chris Kakasuleff
I
n order to pin point the manifestation of events upon the physical earth plane, you must rst 
have a working knowledge of the astronomical mathematical formula. The 360 degree cycle 
popularized by W. D. Gann is our reference point. What did the wizard of Wall Street teach 
us about the great 360 degree cycle? The mathematical architect Gann generously left us a 
legacy of cosmic information to formulate into working principles to predict in advance short, 
intermediate, and long-term nancial market trends.
In my long cerebral journeys into the very core of the secrets of the universe, time and 
time again nature has unveiled its self tome by proving that its greatest secrets are revealed 
in an essence of simplicity.
Mr. Gann articulated that the jewel of the 360 degree cycle in predicting stock market 
trends was literally calendar time. Let’s make sure I heard myself correctly here. I said that to 
beat mighty Wall Street all I needed as working tools was a calendar and maybe a calculator. 
What a powerful tool this concept is. Let’s now construct a foundation and manifest working 
principles for this earth shattering news.
To become the captain of our destiny in protable stock transactions we need to follow 
certain guidelines and rules. First we must transpose calendar time onto the 360 degree 
circle. To devise our formula we must gaze upon the heavens and monitor the cosmic clock 
that regulates the motion of mother earth. The earth completes one revolution around the 
sun in 365.24 days.
To reconcile our revelation of calendar time being the domain for predicting market 
trends, we simply recognize the fact that the earth itself is at the mercy of the gravitational 
pull of the sun, therefore dictating its annual cycle of 365.24 days. As the Earth and its 
consciousness is the subordinate of the sun, so man and the manifestation of all events on 
Gann and the Circle 
By Chris Kakasuleff 
n order to pin point the manifestation of events upon the physical earth plane, you must first 
have a working knowledge of the astronomical mathematical formula. The 360 degree cycle 
popularized by W. D. Gann is our reference point. What did the wizard of Wall Street teach 
us about the great 360 degree cycle? The mathematical architect Gann generously left us a 
legacy of cosmic information to formulate into working principles to predict in advance short, 
intermediate, and long-term financial market trends. 
In my long cerebral journeys into the very core of the secrets of the universe, time and 
time again nature has unveiled its self tome by proving that its greatest secrets are revealed 
in an essence of simplicity. 
Mr. Gann articulated that the jewel of the 360 degree cycle in predicting stock market 
trends was literally calendar time. Let’s make sure | heard myself correctly here. | said that to 
beat mighty Wall Street all 
| needed as working tools was a calendar and maybe a calculator. 
What a powerful tool this concept is. Let's now construct a foundation and manifest working 
principles for this earth shattering news. 
To become the captain of our destiny in profitable stock transactions we need to follow 
certain guidelines and rules. First we must transpose calendar time onto the 360 degree 
circle. To devise our formula we must gaze upon the heavens and monitor the cosmic clock 
that regulates the motion of mother earth. The earth completes one revolution around the 
sun in 365.24 days. 
To reconcile our revelation of calendar time being the domain for predicting market 
trends, we simply recognize the fact that the earth itself is at the mercy of the gravitational 
pull of the sun, therefore dictating its annual cycle of 365.24 days. As the Earth and its 
consciousness is the subordinate of the sun, so man and the manifestation of all events on 
Traders World 
73

--- PAGE 15 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         74
earth are in harmony with this same cosmic music of 365.24. Can you believe the simplicity 
of natures most guarded secrets?
Mr. Gann taught us that the beginning of each renewed annual Earth cycle commenced at 
the spring equinox. Gann indicated that by counting days from March 21 that many of nature’s 
invisible secrets would be revealed. Gann went on to say that by no means was the stock market 
devoid or divorced from this natural calendar rhythm.
Just as the Earth has seasons of the year; a time to plant, a time to cultivate, a time 
to grow, a time to pluck, and a time to reap, so does Wall Street ebb and ow with this 
same circadian time piece.
My dear friend, please take time now to grasp this essence of universal law. Understand 
and cherish it as your eleventh commandment. By programming it into your belief system and 
consciously recognizing its manifestations in the drama of your own life’s enfoldment, you will 
then posses in your heart a glimpse of the truth of all things. You will understand that life deals 
out no random events. You will cherish the fact that you indeed are the navigator of your life’s 
destiny. You will discover the more you scratch at truth, the more it will itch.
As I mentioned earlier, Gann taught us that one avenue of endeavor using the cycle 365.24 
was to mark time from March 21. 1-Ic said to start by making March 21 our zero point. Thus 
making March 22 day one. Gann divided the year into six teen equal parts. By dividing the year 
by four, our sum is the beginning of each new season of the year.
The philosophy Gann was spot-lighting onto our tunnel vision was that March 21 was 
the commencement of the annual reincarnation of life’s new birth. By June 21 at the summer 
solstice point. Intense new growth had taken place in the animal, vegetable, plant, and insect 
kingdom. By the fall equinox on September 21 the peak of vitality was ebbing ever so slowly, 
and old age was replacing fruitarian as the dominant cycle. By the winter solstice, frozen and 
suspended animation ruled the northern hemisphere of the earth, and the suspended seeds 
of the perpetuation of life were invisible, as all life was hidden in the frozen tundra, meditating 
patiently for the return of the photons of light in the spring.
The wizard then instructed us to divide the year by eight. This gives us four more 
dates to consider. These are the halfway points of spring, summer, fall, and winter. Gann 
said to also divide the year by sixteen. This finally gives us sixteen important calendar 
days as our focus.
Gann told us that the most powerful resonating points using calendar time was six 
months or 180 degrees from the beginning point and then back around to the anniversary 
date itself. As summer becomes very hot and winter reaches frigid temperature extremes 
182 days later, so too does stock market action reach volatile extremes. What goes around 
truly does come back around.
The next important model points are the one quarter points. Using our calendar we quickly 
realize that these points are 91 days apart. Gann said to expect a change of trend in the stock 
market at these points. Our analogy concerning conrms this rule, as each season of the year 
guarantees a change of trend in climate conditions.
Gann went on to suggest that by dividing the year by eight, into 45 day increments, we would 
nd more wheels within wheels. The changing gears of market trends can easily become visible 
on any bar chart for those who recognize the signposts of calendar time.
Gann nally encouraged us to divide the calendar year by 16. This gives us a complete road 
map and blue print to predict in advance changes of trend in stock market forecasting.
Here is a listing of Gann’s natural calendar year cycle. Each of these dates are approximately 
22 and one-half days apart. Gann tells us to expect general changes of trend year in and year 
earth are in harmony with this same cosmic music of 365.24. Can you believe the simplicity 
of natures most guarded secrets? 
Mr. Gann taught us that the beginning of each renewed annual Earth cycle commenced at 
the spring equinox. Gann indicated that by counting days from March 21 that many of nature’s 
invisible secrets would be revealed. Gann went on to say that by no means was the stock market 
devoid or divorced from this natural calendar rhythm. 
Just as the Earth has seasons of the year; a time to plant, a time to cultivate, a time 
to grow, a time to pluck, and a time to reap, so does Wall Street ebb and flow with this 
same circadian time piece. 
My dear friend, please take time now to grasp this essence of universal law. Understand 
and cherish it as your eleventh commandment. By programming it into your belief system and 
consciously recognizing its manifestations in the drama of your own life’s enfoldment, you will 
then posses in your heart a glimpse of the truth of all things. You will understand that life deals 
out no random events. You will cherish the fact that you indeed are the navigator of your life’s 
destiny. You will discover the more you scratch at truth, the more it will itch. 
As | mentioned earlier, Gann taught us that one avenue of endeavor using the cycle 365.24 
was to mark time from March 21. 1-Ic said to start by making March 21 our zero point. Thus 
making March 22 day one. Gann divided the year into six teen equal parts. By dividing the year 
by four, our sum is the beginning of each new season of the year. 
The philosophy Gann was spot-lighting onto our tunnel vision was that March 21 was 
the commencement of the annual reincarnation of life’s new birth. By June 21 at the summer 
solstice point. Intense new growth had taken place in the animal, vegetable, plant, and insect 
kingdom. By the fall equinox on September 21 the peak of vitality was ebbing ever so slowly, 
and old age was replacing fruitarian as the dominant cycle. By the winter solstice, frozen and 
suspended animation ruled the northern hemisphere of the earth, and the suspended seeds 
of the perpetuation of life were invisible, as all life was hidden in the frozen tundra, meditating 
patiently for the return of the photons of light in the spring. 
The wizard then instructed us to divide the year by eight. This gives us four more 
dates to consider. These are the halfway points of spring, summer, fall, and winter. Gann 
said to also divide the year by sixteen. This finally gives us sixteen important calendar 
days as our focus. 
Gann told us that the most powerful resonating points using calendar time was six 
months or 180 degrees from the beginning point and then back around to the anniversary 
date itself. As summer becomes very hot and winter reaches frigid temperature extremes 
182 days later, so too does stock market action reach volatile extremes. What goes around 
truly does come back around. 
The next important model points are the one quarter points. Using our calendar we quickly 
realize that these points are 91 days apart. Gann said to expect a change of trend in the stock 
market at these points. Our analogy concerning confirms this rule, as each season of the year 
guarantees a change of trend in climate conditions. 
Gann went on to suggest that by dividing the year by eight, into 45 day increments, we would 
find more wheels within wheels. The changing gears of market trends can easily become visible 
on any bar chart for those who recognize the signposts of calendar time. 
Gann finally encouraged us to divide the calendar year by 16. This gives us a complete road 
map and blue print to predict in advance changes of trend in stock market forecasting. 
Here is a listing of Gann’s natural calendar year cycle. Each of these dates are approximately 
22 and one-half days apart. Gann tells us to expect general changes of trend year in and year 
Traders World 
74

--- PAGE 16 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         75
out, based on these natural time frames.
Anyone who is curious enough to research these dates will have discovered a new book 
of revelations. By just scooping the rst two dates on our chart for the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average for 1988 should be an eye opener. The Dow closed at its rst high for 1988 on Friday, 
March 18 at 2087. This date is one trading day before March 21. On our second date of April 
12 which corresponds to the 22 and one-half degree angle of the circle, the Dow closed at post 
crash highs at 2110 exactly on April 12. Two trading days later the Dow water-faIled 100 points 
in one day, conrming a change of trend.
This particular method of marking calendar time from March 21 is more appropriate for 
commodities, and raw materials that depend on the cycles of the seasons of the earth year.
An interesting sideline would be to take a closer look at the number 365.24. By multiplying 
this number by seven our sum total is 2556.68 days. This turns out to be precisely seven years 
of course, and the notorious seven year itch. The remarkable mind-boggler here is that 2556.68 
days equals out to exactly 365.24 weeks. This new information totally vindicates the perfect 
time cycle as being 365.24 and not 360. Anyone who has the capacity to computer generate 
the complete cycles of 365.24 days, weeks, or years will nd the mathematical validity of this 
sun generated number in stock market tops and bottoms. W. D. Gann discussed many times 
the power of the number seven in stock market action.
The timing of this article could prove to be quite revealing as August 12, 1989 is 
2556.68 days or 365.24 weeks from August 12. 1982. The aging bull will be seven years 
old on that day.
Remember micro-man/woman is trapped unconsciously in this same y paper cycle. All 
events upon the earth whether generated by group consciousness or individual karmic patterns 
must ow with the movement of these cosmic energies of space and time.
In my last article I discussed the power of the square of nine in predicting short term market 
highs and lows. We utilized this system to predict a short term high on March 5, 1988.
Well, it looks like we’ve got bragging rights, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 
2081 on Tuesday, March 8, only two trading days from March 5, which fell on a Saturday. This 
short term top was the post crash high up to that point, with a second top one trading day before 
the spring equinox on March 18, a Friday.
Is there a way to utilize this cycle of 365.24 to trade the market? There are specic rules to 
follow that I have found over time to be extremely dependable in trading stocks, stock options 
and stock index options. But, I don’t want to give away all my secrets.
I am now in the process of publishing an in-depth stock market course in market timing. 
This course will include many precise market tools to condently predict well in advance short, 
intermediate, and long-term market trends. The course will simplify the many complicated 
strategies proposed by W. D. Gann.
Each chapter will focus on a specic timing tool that in and of itself will prove to be 
protable. The course will include chapters on Gann geometry, and explain in a simplied 
way, the most protable way to use the angles to enter and exit trades. A complete chapter 
on the cycle of 365.24 which will explain the precise rules to predict market highs and lows 
will also he included.
Another chapter will give a complete analysis of the square of nine and its unlimited use 
as a market barometer. In-eluded is a proprietary minute chart to enter and exit trades to 
the minute. Also included will be a market system based solely on the daily movement of the 
sun with a 70 percent accuracy rate. There will be many more chapters with specic market 
tools, too numerous to mention here.
out, based on these natural time frames. 
Anyone who is curious enough to research these dates will have discovered a new book 
of revelations. By just scooping the first two dates on our chart for the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average for 1988 should be an eye opener. The Dow closed at its first high for 1988 on Friday, 
March 18 at 2087. This date is one trading day before March 21. On our second date of April 
12 which corresponds to the 22 and one-half degree angle of the circle, the Dow closed at post 
crash highs at 2110 exactly on April 12. Two trading days later the Dow water-falled 100 points 
in one day, confirming a change of trend. 
This particular method of marking calendar time from March 21 is more appropriate for 
commodities, and raw materials that depend on the cycles of the seasons of the earth year. 
An interesting sideline would be to take a closer look at the number 365.24. By multiplying 
this number by seven our sum total is 2556.68 days. This turns out to be precisely seven years 
of course, and the notorious seven year itch. The remarkable mind-boggler here is that 2556.68 
days equals out to exactly 365.24 weeks. This new information totally vindicates the perfect 
time cycle as being 365.24 and not 360. Anyone who has the capacity to computer generate 
the complete cycles of 365.24 days, weeks, or years will find the mathematical validity of this 
sun generated number in stock market tops and bottoms. W. D. Gann discussed many times 
the power of the number seven in stock market action. 
The timing of this article could prove to be quite revealing as August 12, 1989 is 
2556.68 days or 365.24 weeks from August 12. 1982. The aging bull will be seven years 
old on that day. 
Remember micro-man/woman is trapped unconsciously in this same fly paper cycle. All 
events upon the earth whether generated by group consciousness or individual karmic patterns 
must flow with the movement of these cosmic energies of space and time. 
In my last article | discussed the power of the square of nine in predicting short term market 
highs and lows. We utilized this system to predict a short term high on March 5, 1988. 
Well, it looks like we’ve got bragging rights, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 
2081 on Tuesday, March 8, only two trading days from March 5, which fell on a Saturday. This 
short term top was the post crash high up to that point, with a second top one trading day before 
the spring equinox on March 18, a Friday. 
Is there a way to utilize this cycle of 365.24 to trade the market? There are specific rules to 
follow that | have found over time to be extremely dependable in trading stocks, stock options 
and stock index options. But, | don’t want to give away all my secrets. 
| am now in the process of publishing an in-depth stock market course in market timing. 
This course will include many precise market tools to confidently predict well in advance short, 
intermediate, and long-term market trends. The course will simplify the many complicated 
strategies proposed by W. D. Gann. 
Each chapter will focus on a specific timing tool that in and of itself will prove to be 
profitable. The course will include chapters on Gann geometry, and explain in a simplified 
way, the most profitable way to use the angles to enter and exit trades. A complete chapter 
on the cycle of 365.24 which will explain the precise rules to predict market highs and lows 
will also he included. 
Another chapter will give a complete analysis of the square of nine and its unlimited use 
as a market barometer. In-eluded is a proprietary minute chart to enter and exit trades to 
the minute. Also included will be a market system based solely on the daily movement of the 
sun with a 70 percent accuracy rate. There will be many more chapters with specific market 
tools, too numerous to mention here. 
Traders World 
75

--- PAGE 17 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         76
Gann’s Pyramid And Fourth Factor 
Volume 
By Jim Purucker
O
n page 62 of Gann’s book, How To Make Profits in Commodities, Gann states, 
‘After considering three important factors, time, formations, and resistance levels, 
the fourth and next very important factor is volume of sales. The volume of sales 
is the real driving power behind the market and shows whether supply and demand are 
increasing or decreasing. Large buying and selling orders are shown in the volume of sales. 
Therefore, a careful study of the volume of sales will assist in determining a change in trend, 
ESPECIALLY AFTER APPLYING THE OTHER THREE FACTORS OF TIME, FORMATION 
AND RESISTANCE LEVELS.”
In the previous articles of the Gann & Elliott Wave the rst three factors were presented 
for illustration. First, the astrological TIMING points for trading the minor cycle of one year. 
Second, the G-A-N-N2-B/S (buy/sell) FORMATION, what it is and how to dene it, and when 
to act upon proven confirmation of the pattern following Rule number 25, implementing 
Gann’s Pyramid And Fourth Factor 
Volume 
By Jim Purucker 
‘After considering three important factors, time, formations, and resistance levels, 
the fourth and next very important factor is volume of sales. The volume of sales 
is the real driving power behind the market and shows whether supply and demand are 
increasing or decreasing. Large buying and selling orders are shown in the volume of sales. 
Therefore, a careful study of the volume of sales will assist in determining a change in trend, 
ESPECIALLY AFTER APPLYING THE OTHER THREE FACTORS OF TIME, FORMATION 
AND RESISTANCE LEVELS.” 
In the previous articles of the Gann & Elliott Wave the first three factors were presented 
for illustration. First, the astrological TIMING points for trading the minor cycle of one year. 
Second, the G-A-N-N2-B/S (buy/sell) FORMATION, what it is and how to define it, and when 
to act upon proven confirmation of the pattern following Rule number 25, implementing 
| 
SEPTEMBER 88 
T-BONDS 
| 
cee rel 
opt os 
ia 
O;: page 62 of Gann’s book, How To Make Profits in Commodities, Gann states, 
Ctr $100,900 
@ av Trading: 6-9:307 MeeN eee 
102 
$91.25 Min Tick: 192 432 per geg uni 
Ctr. Exp: Sep 21 
Option Exp: Aug 13 
PS Gomgt 
Toxed Secnon* 
DEC-BCNDS 
- DEC MUNIS 
ccmmodrt EN 
o skew 
BC 
toe u SH 
art oa 
onece 
: 
1.60 331 seein a oe 
ays ee raat 
nL wal 
il 
ls 
VOLUME 
oe ae 
me 
ANS ge 
890, 00S 
4 
Traders World 
76

--- PAGE 18 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         77
an OFF-CON (I) & (2) condition. The third factor of importance was determining from a 
zero-degree beginning point of
TIME, a square (90 degrees) or trine (120 degrees) in time or price on the GANN WHEEL, 
combined with the odd and even natural square-root numbers on the GANN WHEEL for support-
resistance levels. The odd squares begin at the peak of the Gann Wheel, the Great Pyramid of 
Gizeh, with number one as the capstone. The next square root level, square or course of stones, 
begin at number two and ends with number nine or Y (three squared). The square root of these 
odd numbers, which fall on the xed angle of 41.475232 degrees to the South-West compass 
point, are the cornerstones for each course or square on the Great Pyramid.
An example in the previous article for the price high (2-5-88) on June ‘88 TBonds was 
94-17. Converting 94-17 to 1/32nd Bond ticks (94 x 32 + 17) equals 3025 ticks. The square 
root of 30252 equals 55 (55 x 55), an important resistance level. On the GANN WHEEL, the 
zero-degree line intersecting the two-digit number 75 (10-19-87) price low is 180 degree 
opposition number 94, or 19 bond points. The difference in ticks was 625 ticks (25Th 625 divided 
by 32nds equals 19-17 bond points. Therefore, number 75 (75-00) plus 19-17, equals 2-5-88 
PRICE HIGH at 94-17 (TO THE TICK)!
Now let’s analyze the September ‘88 T-Bonds. First, the astrological TIMING POINT to 
balance the week of 2-29-88 (l80) is due the week of 8-22-88, 9(1 square the week of 5-23-88 
is 8-22-88. Price was 90~ square from 93-17 to 83-17, within nine ticks of the low price of 
83-23 on the GANN WHEEL. Second, the G-A-N-N2- Buy formation began zero degrees on 
8-16-88, marked “G” at 83-23, “A” formed at 85-11 on 8-19-88, on 8-23-88, “N”, signaling a 
PREPARE TO BUY condition (OFF-CON 2).
At this point, a brief description of an OFF-CON condition I & 2 (OFE)ensive (CON)dition is 
in order. In the movie, “WAR GAMES” DEE-CON (DEF-ensive CON-ditions) were progressive 
stages of readiness prior to missile launch.
For brevity, I only use two conditions of readiness rather than the four conditions in the 
movie. A stage (2) OFF-CON is “PREPARE TO BUY,” a stage (I) OFF-CON is the actual pulling 
the trigger for the buy executions CONFIRMING the G-A-N-N2-Buy formation, similar to the 
DEFCON (I) condition in the movie, where the missiles are actually launched.
Now, let’s pick up on 8-25-88 when the price drops below 84-16, the price low of “N”, 
which signals an OFF-CON (2) state of readiness, PREPARE TO BUY condition. OFF-CON 
(2) also gives the right to draw a I x I angle from N2 where the buy stop orders are placed. 
The I x I angle from N2 was at 84-31 on 8-2-88. For those traders who have substantial 
amounts of capital to risk
(Fund Managers, Banks, S&Ls, Insurance Companies. Corporations and high-net-worth 
individuals), I suggest a TOTAL PYRAMID contract position of 10, 100, 1,000, 10,000, or 
100,000 or more, using a 5-3-2=10, or 500-300-200=1,000 sequence to build the pyramid 
properly.
For this hypothetical trade, 1,000 contracts are placed thus: Place a Buy Stop for 500 
contracts ve bond ticks above the I x I angle of (84-31) at 85-04, next place a buy stop for 300 
contracts one bond tick above “A” (85-Il) the zero degree horizontal at 85-12, add the nal 200 
contracts M.O.C. at 85-21, as long as the CLOSE is above the I x I angle from N2 and in the top 
1/3 of the total price range for a total pyramid of I ,000 contract. The initial sell stop is one tick 
below the low of the day the price closes above the I x I angle at 84-24. Initial risk is 18 bond 
ticks or $563.5() per contract (x) 1,000 TOTAL PYRAMID, or $562,500. plus commissions, fees 
and of course, any slippage for poor lls.
August 29, 1988 was a unique trading day in the OFF-CON (I) BUY execution, as the 
an OFF-CON (Il) & (2) condition. The third factor of importance was determining from a 
zero-degree beginning point of 
TIME, a square (90 degrees) or trine (120 degrees) in time or price on the GANN WHEEL, 
combined with the odd and even natural square-root numbers on the GANN WHEEL for support- 
resistance levels. The odd squares begin at the peak of the Gann Wheel, the Great Pyramid of 
Gizeh, with number one as the capstone. The next square root level, square or course of stones, 
begin at number two and ends with number nine or Y (three squared). The square root of these 
odd numbers, which fall on the fixed angle of 41.475232 degrees to the South-West compass 
point, are the cornerstones for each course or square on the Great Pyramid. 
An example in the previous article for the price high (2-5-88) on June ‘88 TBonds was 
94-17. Converting 94-17 to 1/32nd Bond ticks (94 x 32 + 17) equals 3025 ticks. The square 
root of 30252 equals 55 (55 x 55), an important resistance level. On the GANN WHEEL, the 
zero-degree line intersecting the two-digit number 75 (10-19-87) price low is 180 degree 
opposition number 94, or 19 bond points. The difference in ticks was 625 ticks (25Th 625 divided 
by 32nds equals 19-17 bond points. Therefore, number 75 (75-00) plus 19-17, equals 2-5-88 
PRICE HIGH at 94-17 (TO THE TICk)! 
Now let’s analyze the September ‘88 T-Bonds. First, the astrological TIMING POINT to 
balance the week of 2-29-88 (I80) is due the week of 8-22-88, 9(1 square the week of 5-23-88 
is 8-22-88. Price was 90~ square from 93-17 to 83-17, within nine ticks of the low price of 
83-23 on the GANN WHEEL. Second, the G-A-N-N2- Buy formation began zero degrees on 
8-16-88, marked “G” at 83-23, “A” formed at 85-11 on 8-19-88, on 8-23-88, “N’”, signaling a 
PREPARE TO BUY condition (OFF-CON 2). 
At this point, a brief description of an OFF-CON condition | & 2 (OFE)ensive (CON)dition is 
in order. In the movie, “WAR GAMES” DEE-CON (DEF-ensive CON-ditions) were progressive 
stages of readiness prior to missile launch. 
For brevity, 
| only use two conditions of readiness rather than the four conditions in the 
movie. A stage (2) OFF-CON is “PREPARE TO BUY,” a stage (1) OFF-CON is the actual pulling 
the trigger for the buy executions CONFIRMING the G-A-N-N2-Buy formation, similar to the 
DEFCON (I) condition in the movie, where the missiles are actually launched. 
Now, let’s pick up on 8-25-88 when the price drops below 84-16, the price low of “N”, 
which signals an OFF-CON (2) state of readiness, PREPARE TO BUY condition. OFF-CON 
(2) also gives the right to draw a | x | angle from N2 where the buy stop orders are placed. 
The | x | angle from N2 was at 84-31 on 8-2-88. For those traders who have substantial 
amounts of capital to risk 
(Fund Managers, Banks, S&Ls, Insurance Companies. Corporations and high-net-worth 
individuals), 
| suggest 
a TOTAL PYRAMID contract position of 10, 100, 1,000, 10,000, or 
100,000 or more, using a 5-3-2=10, or 500-300-200=1,000 sequence to build the pyramid 
properly. 
For this hypothetical trade, 1,000 contracts are placed thus: Place a Buy Stop for 500 
contracts five bond ticks above the | x | angle of (84-31) at 85-04, next place a buy stop for 300 
contracts one bond tick above “A” (85-Il) the zero degree horizontal at 85-12, add the final 200 
contracts M.O.C. at 85-21, as long as the CLOSE is above the | x | angle from N2 and in the top 
1/3 of the total price range for a total pyramid of | ,000 contract. The initial sell stop is one tick 
below the low of the day the price closes above the | x | angle at 84-24. Initial risk is 18 bond 
ticks or $563.5() per contract (x) 1,000 TOTAL PYRAMID, or $562,500. plus commissions, fees 
and of course, any slippage for poor fills. 
August 29, 1988 was a unique trading day in the OFF-CON (Il) BUY execution, as the 
Traders World 
77

--- PAGE 19 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         78
TOTAL Pyramid of 1.000 contracts were triggered and secured by the close of the 29th. 
On 8-29-88, the G-A-N-N2-Buy formation conrmed OFF-CON (I) condition with entry into 
Gann’s second section.
The rst objective to sell is 162 bond ticks added to the 83-23 low at “G”. One-hundred 
and sixty two bond ticks divided by 32 equals 5-02 bond points (83-23 + 5-02) 88-25 objective. 
Previous vibrations of 5-02 bond points (1+6+2=9). Why nine’? The number nine seems to have 
a denite “power” or “vibration.” Pythagoras is believed to have had a remarkable “WHEEL” 
by means of which he could predict future events. Look at the design and consturction of the 
GANN WHEEL (see ad in the GANN & ELLIOTT WAVE) the Trines 120Th240=9, l44=1+4+4=9, 
216=2+1+6=9, 288=2±8+8=l8, or 1+8=9, 72=7±2=9 and 360=3+6+0=9. Gann’s MASTER 
NUMBER 45=I+2+3+4+5+6+7+8±9454+59
Nine is the basis of the unit value of ALL numbers. On Friday, 9-2-88, the price objective 
88-25 was executed. Average cost for 1,000 contracts was 85-10. 88-25 minus 85-10 equals 
3-15 Bond Points, or $3,468.75 per contract times 1,000 equals $3,468,750, less commissions, 
fees, and slippage.
Now, Gann’s fourth factor VOLUME OF SALES as another KEY, signicant in trading 
T-Bonds. Notice the KEY TO DAILY VOLUME at trend turning points is 490,000+ contracts 
on 4-14-88, 6-1-88, 6-14-88, and 8-16-88. Here Gann says the trade has made up its mind, a 
change of trend is eminent and reveals it through ONE-DAY VOLUME of 490,000+ contracts. 
Yet, even with the KEY TO VOLUME, Gann, in his innite wisdom, says, “In order to be a 
success, “FOLLOW A DEFINITE RULE.” Remember Gann’s rule number 25? Let the market 
prove ills at bottom with the G-A-NN2-B formation as the formation, provided nine trading days of 
accumulation prior to conrmation of entry in OFF-CON (I) on 8-29-88.
In conclusion, I would like to make you aware of two Aphorisms of Pythagoras, number 
four and number nine (an aphorism is a short pointed sentence expressing a wise, clever 
observation or general truth). Number four states, “assist a man in raising or lifting his burden; 
but, do not assist him in laying it down.”
In this article I have done my best to help and assist you in your trading by giving you the tools 
to raise yourself up and out of the 90 percent losers, 10 percent winners ratio, which because of 
human nature, stays the same every year. However, you must be responsible for your losses, as 
well as your gains, and not place the blame for your losses on others.
Pythagoras’ aphorism number nine states, “offer not your right hand easily to anyone.” This 
statement warns not to offer wisdom and knowledge to those who are incapable of appreciating 
them. Gann would cast a birth chart (horoscope) of the individual purchasing his courses. In 
this way, he was trying to determine if the individual was skeptical or was capable of studying 
long and hard about the truths he was trying to teach. Gann wrote voluminous am-mounts of 
material to create a desire in the individual to search for hidden truths, much in the same way 
the ancients in the past clothed their secrets in veiled language; such as the writers of the Bible, 
Plato, Aristotle, and Pythagoras, to name a few.
Gann, in his wisdom, realized the unregenerate do not desire wisdom and knowledge, 
but through indolence would eventually cut off the right hand that was extended in kindness 
to them. Once one learns to like themselves, has a continuous positive winning attitude, 
takes responsibility, practices the greatest of virtues-patience, and follows a disciplined 
technical approach to Gann’s rules, then, and only then, will it be your time and season 
to reap material wealth.
Many of my clients who have purchased the GANN WHEEL are extremely successful men 
and women in many different elds of endeavor. These people know how to get the job done 
TOTAL Pyramid of 1.000 contracts were triggered and secured by the close of the 29th. 
On 8-29-88, the G-A-N-N2-Buy formation confirmed OFF-CON (I) condition with entry into 
Gann’s second section. 
The first objective to sell is 162 bond ticks added to the 83-23 low at “G”’. One-hundred 
and sixty two bond ticks divided by 32 equals 5-02 bond points (83-23 + 5-02) 88-25 objective. 
Previous vibrations of 5-02 bond points (1+6+2=9). Why nine’? The number nine seems to have 
a definite “power” or “vibration.” Pythagoras is believed to have had a remarkable “WHEEL” 
by means of which he could predict future events. Look at the design and consturction of the 
GANN WHEEL (see ad in the GANN & ELLIOTT WAVE) the Trines 120Th240=9, 144=1+4+4=9, 
216=2+1+6=9, 288=248+8=|8, or 1+8=9, 72=742=9 and 360=3+6+0=9. Gann’s MASTER 
NUMBER 45=1+2+3+4+5+6+7+849454+59 
Nine is the basis of the unit value of ALL numbers. On Friday, 9-2-88, the price objective 
88-25 was executed. Average cost for 1,000 contracts was 85-10. 88-25 minus 85-10 equals 
3-15 Bond Points, or $3,468.75 per contract times 1,000 equals $3,468,750, less commissions, 
fees, and slippage. 
Now, Gann’s fourth factor VOLUME OF SALES as another KEY, significant in trading 
T-Bonds. Notice the KEY TO DAILY VOLUME at trend turning points is 490,000+ contracts 
on 4-14-88, 6-1-88, 6-14-88, and 8-16-88. Here Gann says the trade has made up its mind, a 
change of trend is eminent and reveals it through ONE-DAY VOLUME of 490,000+ contracts. 
Yet, even with the KEY TO VOLUME, Gann, in his infinite wisdom, says, “In order to be a 
success, “FOLLOW A DEFINITE RULE.” Remember Gann’s rule number 25? Let the market 
prove ills at bottom with the G-A-NN2-B formation as the formation, provided nine trading days of 
accumulation prior to confirmation of entry in OFF-CON (Il) on 8-29-88. 
In conclusion, | would like to make you aware of two Aphorisms of Pythagoras, number 
four and number nine (an aphorism is a short pointed sentence expressing a wise, clever 
observation or general truth). Number four states, “assist a man in raising or lifting his burden; 
but, do not assist him in laying it down.” 
In this article | have done my best to help and assist you in your trading by giving you the tools 
to raise yourself up and out of the 90 percent losers, 10 percent winners ratio, which because of 
human nature, stays the same every year. However, you must be responsible for your losses, as 
well as your gains, and not place the blame for your losses on others. 
Pythagoras’ aphorism number nine states, “offer not your right hand easily to anyone.” This 
statement warns not to offer wisdom and knowledge to those who are incapable of appreciating 
them. Gann would cast a birth chart (horoscope) of the individual purchasing his courses. In 
this way, he was trying to determine if the individual was skeptical or was capable of studying 
long and hard about the truths he was trying to teach. Gann wrote voluminous am-mounts of 
material to create a desire in the individual to search for hidden truths, much in the same way 
the ancients in the past clothed their secrets in veiled language; such as the writers of the Bible, 
Plato, Aristotle, and Pythagoras, to name a few. 
Gann, in his wisdom, realized the unregenerate do not desire wisdom and knowledge, 
but through indolence would eventually cut off the right hand that was extended in kindness 
to them. Once one learns to like themselves, has a continuous positive winning attitude, 
takes responsibility, practices the greatest of virtues-patience, and follows a disciplined 
technical approach to Gann’s rules, then, and only then, will it be your time and season 
to reap material wealth. 
Many of my clients who have purchased the GANN WHEEL are extremely successful men 
and women in many different fields of endeavor. These people know how to get the job done 
Traders World 
78

--- PAGE 20 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         79
W. D. Gann and Astrology 
By Norman Winski
A
re you one of those people who have tried to read some of the writings by W.D. Gann and 
felt like you might as well be reading Greek? Consolation is here. Most beginning students 
of Gann’s works feel thoroughly confused, if not totally bafed. The situation is somewhat 
analogous to someone who picks up a book written in Greek, having absolutely no knowledge of 
Greek, and tries to understand those writings on assumption that they are reading English. The 
difference is that Gann’s writings utilize the English alphabet, therefore, wrongly reinforcing the 
illusion that he is communication to you in normal conversational English.
W.D. Gann was actually writing in another language” or jargon, but he usually didn’t 
bother to tell most people this.
The language of W.D. Gann is Astrology. All though the writings and charts of Gann are 
allusions to the principles of Astrology. For example, in your Gann research you may have 
noticed Gann’s use of the date of incorporation for a company, the date of the rst day of trading 
for a stock or futures contract, the zodiacal dates surrounding the “Square of Nine” chart, the 
planetary symbols found in his own handwritten market charts, the planetary ephemerides with 
his personal notes written inside found among his books, the use of angles basic to astrology, 
and the collaboration with other astrologers. I said “other astrologers” because rst and foremost, 
W.D. Gann was an astrologer. Everything else is supplementary.
W. D. Gann and Astrology 
By Norman Winski 
felt like you might as well be reading Greek? Consolation is here. Most beginning students 
of Gann’s works feel thoroughly confused, if not totally baffled. The situation is somewhat 
analogous to someone who picks up a book written in Greek, having absolutely no knowledge of 
Greek, and tries to understand those writings on assumption that they are reading English. The 
difference is that Gann’s writings utilize the English alphabet, therefore, wrongly reinforcing the 
illusion that he is communication to you in normal conversational English. 
W.D. Gann was actually writing in another language” or jargon, but he usually didn't 
bother to tell most people this. 
The language of W.D. Gann is Astrology. All though the writings and charts of Gann are 
allusions to the principles of Astrology. For example, in your Gann research you may have 
noticed Gann’s use of the date of incorporation for a company, the date of the first day of trading 
for a stock or futures contract, the zodiacal dates surrounding the “Square of Nine” chart, the 
planetary symbols found in his own handwritten market charts, the planetary ephemerides with 
his personal notes written inside found among his books, the use of angles basic to astrology, 
and the collaboration with other astrologers. | said “other astrologers” because first and foremost, 
W.D. Gann was an astrologer. Everything else is supplementary. 
f\ re you one of those people who have tried to read some of the writings by W.D. Gann and 
PLEPELLo 
Javvatee 
ea, ene 
BRMRERO 
63. 
QURBERIS CEE TET 
SE 
sal 
A a 
lngh— 
RANE AINE Stas 
v 
REET ef oat) ee RON 
Wn. <KEE RELA 
RE LE NSONCK 
ARSE CCE 
CL 
ORR SR 
Pamunde aster was Ronen 
Cec eee ee 
~ECREEGERED CAS 
POSSESS 
Traders World 
79

--- PAGE 21 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         80
Astrology is the correlation of extraterrestrial phenomena with terrestrial phenomena. It is 
a specialized branch of cycles. Gann liked to refer to it as “the law of nature” or “natural law.” 
The bottom line is that Gann said that timing was the most important factor and he based most 
of his market timing on astrological factors or principles.
Several years ago, I had the good fortune to talk on the telephone on several occasions 
with a former associate of W.D. Gann’s. Because of a promise to keep his identity a secret, 
I can’t tell you his name. But, he lived in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and his initials are R.C. 
R.C. ‘s father was a very good astrologer and had worked with Gann. When R.C. was a young 
man, he followed in his father’s footsteps and started working with Gann. He worked with 
Gann on a full-time basis as a partner and collaborating astrologer for about ten years, from 
the late 1930’s to the late 1940’s.
During our conversations, R.C. told me that “rst and foremost, Gann was astrological.” 
He also said that during that period, he worked with Gann. Gann made most of his money by 
selling market letters and $5000 courses. In 1948, when Gann accurately forecast the top of the 
soybean market, almost to the penny and the minute, Gann sold one soybean futures contract 
short and rode it down one dollar for a gain of $5000.
This is a tribute to “Gann the man” but it does punch a hole in Gann, the fty mil lion 
dollar super genius trader. Of course, no trader is better than the system he uses. Was Gann 
a genius? Perhaps, but knowing that will neither help you trade nor help you learn the systems 
and perspectives Gann utilized. Were the systems Gann used ingenious? On that there is no 
doubt, the answer is a resounding yes. Gann was successful because he had the benet of 
thousands of years of ancient principles on his side, of which he was a relentless student. If 
you are still skeptical about W.D. Gann using astrology, I have included a chart of May soybean 
futures used by Gann. A copy of this same chart also appears on page 202 of P.J. Kaufman’s 
1978 book, Commodity Trading Systems and Methods. I mention this so that you can see for 
yourself that I did not in anyway alter this chart. Now, please refer to this chart. In the upper left 
hand corner you will nd “May Soybeans.” Follow the vertical line down, which goes through the 
yin May (three horizontal lines). There you should nd a strange looking four, followed by a 30 
and an arrow like glyph. The strange looking four is the astrological/astronomical symbol glyph 
for the planet Jupiter. The 30 represents thirty degrees. The arrow like glyph is the symbol for 
the sign of Sagittarius (240 degrees). Gann was indicating that with Jupiter at thirty degrees 
of Sagittarius, 240 degrees plus 30 degrees equals 270 degrees, there should be important 
support/resistance at a price of 270.
There is another Jupiter glyph on the left side of the chart near the price of 264 on the 
price scale, with a dotted, jagged line extending up and to the right. The dotted line plots the 
movement of Jupiter. Directly to the right of this last Jupiter glyph, below the “a” in Soybeans, 
you will nd a small circle with an arrow on top, the symbol for the planet Mars. This is followed 
by “22”, and the arrow like the glyph for Sagittarius. Gann drew a line to the right pointing to 
another dotted jagged line. This line represents the movement of Mars. Now, follow this line 
up to the right. Notice that it intersects with the Jupiter line. This represents Mars conjunct 
Jupiter or in the same place by longitude. This is an important astrological event which coincided 
closely with the retest high of the market.
The time has come for you to decide for yourself whether to learn the true ancient principles 
that Gann studied or to remain in a confused cloud of delusion. There are no easy answers. W.D. 
Gann took ten years of his life to study at the world’s greatest repositories of ancient knowledge 
and continued to study, the rest of his life. For those inclined, there is not greater awe inspiring 
Astrology is the correlation of extraterrestrial phenomena with terrestrial phenomena. It is 
a specialized branch of cycles. Gann liked to refer to it as “the law of nature” or “natural law.” 
The bottom line is that Gann said that timing was the most important factor and he based most 
of his market timing on astrological factors or principles. 
Several years ago, | had the good fortune to talk on the telephone on several occasions 
with a former associate of W.D. Gann’s. Because of a promise to keep his identity a secret, 
| can’t tell you his name. But, he lived in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and his initials are R.C. 
R.C. ‘s father was a very good astrologer and had worked with Gann. When R.C. was a young 
man, he followed in his father’s footsteps and started working with Gann. He worked with 
Gann on a full-time basis as a partner and collaborating astrologer for about ten years, from 
the late 1930’s to the late 1940's. 
During our conversations, R.C. told me that “first and foremost, Gann was astrological.” 
He also said that during that period, he worked with Gann. Gann made most of his money by 
selling market letters and $5000 courses. In 1948, when Gann accurately forecast the top of the 
soybean market, almost to the penny and the minute, Gann sold one soybean futures contract 
short and rode it down one dollar for a gain of $5000. 
This is a tribute to “Gann the man” but it does punch a hole in Gann, the fifty mil lion 
dollar super genius trader. Of course, no trader is better than the system he uses. Was Gann 
a genius? Perhaps, but knowing that will neither help you trade nor help you learn the systems 
and perspectives Gann utilized. Were the systems Gann used ingenious? On that there is no 
doubt, the answer is a resounding yes. Gann was successful because he had the benefit of 
thousands of years of ancient principles on his side, of which he was a relentless student. If 
you are still skeptical about W.D. Gann using astrology, | have included a chart of May soybean 
futures used by Gann. A copy of this same chart also appears on page 202 of P.J. Kaufman’s 
1978 book, Commodity Trading Systems and Methods. | mention this so that you can see for 
yourself that | did not in anyway alter this chart. Now, please refer to this chart. In the upper left 
hand corner you will find “May Soybeans.” Follow the vertical line down, which goes through the 
yin May (three horizontal lines). There you should find a strange looking four, followed by a 30 
and an arrow like glyph. The strange looking four is the astrological/astronomical symbol glyph 
for the planet Jupiter. The 30 represents thirty degrees. The arrow like glyph is the symbol for 
the sign of Sagittarius (240 degrees). Gann was indicating that with Jupiter at thirty degrees 
of Sagittarius, 240 degrees plus 30 degrees equals 270 degrees, there should be important 
support/resistance at a price of 270. 
There is another Jupiter glyph on the left side of the chart near the price of 264 on the 
price scale, with a dotted, jagged line extending up and to the right. The dotted line plots the 
movement of Jupiter. Directly to the right of this last Jupiter glyph, below the “a” in Soybeans, 
you will find a small circle with an arrow on top, the symbol for the planet Mars. This is followed 
by “22”, and the arrow like the glyph for Sagittarius. Gann drew a line to the right pointing to 
another dotted jagged line. This line represents the movement of Mars. Now, follow this line 
up to the right. Notice that it intersects with the Jupiter line. This represents Mars conjunct 
Jupiter or in the same place by longitude. This is an important astrological event which coincided 
closely with the retest high of the market. 
The time has come for you to decide for yourself whether to learn the true ancient principles 
that Gann studied or to remain in a confused cloud of delusion. There are no easy answers. W.D. 
Gann took ten years of his life to study at the world’s greatest repositories of ancient knowledge 
and continued to study, the rest of his life. For those inclined, there is not greater awe inspiring 
Traders World 
80

--- PAGE 22 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         81
Taking Gann, Elliott, and 
Fibonacci to the Bank 
By Robert Miner
G
ann and Elliott market analysis ranges from the practical to the highly esoteric. From my 
point of view, any theory of the marketplace is of value only if it can be put into practical 
use. Whether a theory or technique is valid is based solely on whether its consistent 
use enables the trader or investor to prot consistently in his business of speculation. Gann 
and Fibonacci analysis is the basis of my time and price ratio analysis. Elliott wave analysis 
is the basis of the price pattern analysis.
My approach to investing and trading using Gann, Elliott, and Fibonacci analysis is three 
dimensional. These three dimensions are time, price, and pattern. Only when time, price, and 
pattern coincide do I consider the market in a position to offer a sufciently low risk trading 
opportunity to enter the market. I’ll describe how I analyzed recent market activity in gold using 
these time, price, and pattern techniques to enter actual trades.
There were many long term time price, and pattern indications that a major change in trend 
was likely in the gold market in the December 1987 January 1988. The gold rally cycle from 
the February 1985 low did indeed reach nal top on December 14 and prices moved down 
sharply from there. By identifying the completion of a major bullish cycle, the trader can begin to 
determine the parameters of time, price, and pattern to trade the correction.
Once a major or minor cycle is complete, I always look for a ABC or three wave correction 
at a minimum. The market may unfold into a more complex correction. By following strict rules 
that require particular time, price, and pattern parameters to be satised and coincide, I nd I 
can consistently enter the market at a very minimum risk and catch the larger swings. The rst 
corrective wave from the December high unfolded in a clear Elliot ve- wave pattern. Prices 
corrected approximately 38.2% of the February 1985 - December 1987 rally. The nal week 
of the ve-wave corrective pattern resulted in a reversal week with a new low and a close 
considerably above the previous weeks close. The A-wave was not complete and the trader’s 
objective is not to determine the parameters to enter the direction of the trend on the short side 
to take advantage of the next wave down or the C-wave.
I will begin the detailed analysis with the market activity subsequent to the A-wave bottom 
of February 29. The market could unfold in a more complex corrective pattern than an ABC 
correction. The A-wave low of February 29 could result in the nal price low of the correction. 
I usually go under the assumption that there will be a second corrective wave down from any 
extended rally. This is particularly true when a major time cycle has completed which was the 
case with the top in gold in December. The objective is to enter the market on the short side with 
minimum risk and take all the market will give us. Since the rst leg of the correction resulted in a 
clear Elliott ve-wave pattern in the February low, I would look for the B-wave to unfold in a ABC 
pattern. The completed B-wave is likely to correct either 38.2% or 50% of the A-wave. The A-wave 
correction was $101 (December 88 contract): December 14 high at 542 to February 29 low at 
441. A 38.2% correction would be at 480 and a 50% correction at 491. The maximum correction 
to expect would be a 61.8% retracement at 503. 1 did not expect prices to retrace more than 50% 
due to the extend and swiftness of the rst leg down into the February 29 low.
Taking Gann, Elliott, and 
Fibonacci to the Bank 
By Robert Miner 
point of view, any theory of the marketplace is of value only if it can be put into practical 
use. Whether a theory or technique is valid is based solely on whether its consistent 
use enables the trader or investor to profit consistently in his business of speculation. Gann 
and Fibonacci analysis is the basis of my time and price ratio analysis. Elliott wave analysis 
is the basis of the price pattern analysis. 
My approach to investing and trading using Gann, Elliott, and Fibonacci analysis is three 
dimensional. These three dimensions are time, price, and pattern. Only when time, price, and 
pattern coincide do | consider the market in a position to offer a sufficiently low risk trading 
opportunity to enter the market. I'll describe how | analyzed recent market activity in gold using 
these time, price, and pattern techniques to enter actual trades. 
There were many long term time price, and pattern indications that a major change in trend 
was likely in the gold market in the December 1987 January 1988. The gold rally cycle from 
the February 1985 low did indeed reach final top on December 14 and prices moved down 
sharply from there. By identifying the completion of a major bullish cycle, the trader can begin to 
determine the parameters of time, price, and pattern to trade the correction. 
Once a major or minor cycle is complete, | always look for a ABC or three wave correction 
at a minimum. The market may unfold into a more complex correction. By following strict rules 
that require particular time, price, and pattern parameters to be satisfied and coincide, | find | 
can consistently enter the market at a very minimum risk and catch the larger swings. The first 
corrective wave from the December high unfolded in a clear Elliot five- wave pattern. Prices 
corrected approximately 38.2% of the February 1985 - December 1987 rally. The final week 
of the five-wave corrective pattern resulted in a reversal week with a new low and a close 
considerably above the previous weeks close. The A-wave was not complete and the trader’s 
objective is not to determine the parameters to enter the direction of the trend on the short side 
to take advantage of the next wave down or the C-wave. 
| will begin the detailed analysis with the market activity subsequent to the A-wave bottom 
of February 29. The market could unfold in a more complex corrective pattern than an ABC 
correction. The A-wave low of February 29 could result in the final price low of the correction. 
| usually go under the assumption that there will be a second corrective wave down from any 
extended rally. This is particularly true when a major time cycle has completed which was the 
case with the top in gold in December. The objective is to enter the market on the short side with 
minimum risk and take all the market will give us. Since the first leg of the correction resulted in a 
clear Elliott five-wave pattern in the February low, | would look for the B-wave to unfold in a ABC 
pattern. The completed B-wave is likely to correct either 38.2% or 50% of the A-wave. The A-wave 
correction was $101 (December 88 contract): December 14 high at 542 to February 29 low at 
441. A 38.2% correction would be at 480 and a 50% correction at 491. The maximum correction 
to expect would be a 61.8% retracement at 503. 1 did not expect prices to retrace more than 50% 
due to the extend and swiftness of the first leg down into the February 29 low. 
G 
ann and Elliott market analysis ranges from the practical to the highly esoteric. From my 
Traders World 
81

--- PAGE 23 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         82
Price rallied from the February low to 479 in precisely seven weeks. 479 was just one dollar 
short of the projected 38.2% corrective level at 480. Seven weeks is 49 calendar days. Gann 
called any time interval of 49 the “death zone” and a period to prepare for a change of trend. 
Prices had unfolded in an ABC pattern of sorts into the 49th day at April 18. This appeared to 
be an ideal shorting opportunity. Prices were at a signicant Fibonacci price retracement level 
exactly at the completion of an important Gann time cycle and Elliott corrective pattern. Time, 
price, and pattern had coincided. The weakest dimension at this point in time was the Elliott 
pattern analysis. The price pattern was not the clear Elliott ABC correction I’ve come to anticipate 
in the gold market and the precision of the coincidence of time and price overruled the Elliot 
pattern doubts. I looked for a conrmation of a top to short the market.
I went short on the close two days later on April 20. Price activity on April 20 resulted in a 
fairly wide ranging outside day where prices closed near the low of the day and below the prior 
day’s low. This was strong conrmation that the rally cycle from the February low had likely 
topped. I’m now short at 473.50. My stop was placed at 481. Just two days later prices moved 
down $8 and the stop was lowered to 475. So far so good. A small rally ensued the following 
week with prices failing to ll the gap left on April 22. On May second, when prices exceeded 
the rst short term swing low of April 26, I moved the stop down 466 close only, just above the 
small gap left May second. This insures me of at least a small prot. I’m looking for a longer 
term C-wave correction which should extend at least $50 or 1/2 of the A-wave. I’m stopped 
out the following week on May 10 at 466 when the market closed right at my close stop. I 
now have a $7.50 prot ($750 per contract) in three weeks. I’ll take it with no complaints. 
However, I’m looking for a larger swing.
Gann reiterates throughout his work that time is the most important element. A market will 
not complete a trend until the time is up. At this point in time, it did not appear that the seven 
week cycle completed the B-wave correction. Now I must determine when the next most likely 
time for this phase of the correction is likely to end.
N/lay 29 would be 90 days from the February 29 low. The week beginning May 30 would be 
three months from the Feb. 29 low. Gold very often has a change in trend upon the completion 
of one of Gann’s natural time cycles of 30, 60,90, and 180 interval periods. I would look at 
the week beginning May 30 as a high probability change in trend period and a likely time to 
expect the completion of the B-wave cycle.
One June second, gold had the widest range day in months and broke out of the triple top 
at the important 38.2% retracement level of 480. A breakout above a triple top usually indicates 
and results in an explosive rally. I didn’t trust this breakout. In the larger picture the correction 
from the December 1987 top did not look complete. The week of the breakout completes the 
90-day and three month cycle and strongly indicates a likely high and completion of the B-wave 
cycle. Just one day following the June third breakout results in a strong indication the breakout is 
false. June third results in a key reversal day. Price opened below the prior day’s low, moved to 
a new intraday high and closed below the day’s open and the prior day’s close. Strong indication 
of a reversal in trend. Two trading days later price closes down sharply below the triple top zone, 
a conrmation of the breakout was false. I go short at 476 near the close of June seventh. A Stop 
is placed at 482, just above the day’s high. Price and time activity has conrmed that the B-wave 
cycle is likely complete and a strong move down can be anticipated.
Within three weeks prices have moved down to the area of the A-wave lows of February 
29. I’ve moved my stop down to 472, just above the rst swing high. I’m tempted to take prots 
or a least tighten up the stop considerably as prices near the February low. However, the price 
objectives for the C-wave indicate prices will likely exceed the February low.
On July 25 the market closes down over $16 on the wildest range day in over six months 
Price rallied from the February low to 479 in precisely seven weeks. 479 was just one dollar 
short of the projected 38.2% corrective level at 480. Seven weeks is 49 calendar days. Gann 
called any time interval of 49 the “death zone” and a period to prepare for a change of trend. 
Prices had unfolded in an ABC pattern of sorts into the 49th day at April 18. This appeared to 
be an ideal shorting opportunity. Prices were at a significant Fibonacci price retracement level 
exactly at the completion of an important Gann time cycle and Elliott corrective pattern. Time, 
price, and pattern had coincided. The weakest dimension at this point in time was the Elliott 
pattern analysis. The price pattern was not the clear Elliott ABC correction I’ve come to anticipate 
in the gold market and the precision of the coincidence of time and price overruled the Elliot 
pattern doubts. | looked for a confirmation of a top to short the market. 
| went short on the close two days later on April 20. Price activity on April 20 resulted in a 
fairly wide ranging outside day where prices closed near the low of the day and below the prior 
day’s low. This was strong confirmation that the rally cycle from the February low had likely 
topped. I’m now short at 473.50. My stop was placed at 481. Just two days later prices moved 
down $8 and the stop was lowered to 475. So far so good. A small rally ensued the following 
week with prices failing to fill the gap left on April 22. On May second, when prices exceeded 
the first short term swing low of April 26, 
| moved the stop down 466 close only, just above the 
small gap left May second. This insures me of at least a small profit. I’m looking for a longer 
term C-wave correction which should extend at least $50 or 1/2 of the A-wave. I’m stopped 
out the following week on May 10 at 466 when the market closed right at my close stop. | 
now have a $7.50 profit ($750 per contract) in three weeks. I'll take it with no complaints. 
However, I’m looking for a larger swing. 
Gann reiterates throughout his work that time is the most important element. A market will 
not complete a trend until the time is up. At this point in time, it did not appear that the seven 
week cycle completed the B-wave correction. Now | must determine when the next most likely 
time for this phase of the correction is likely to end. 
N/lay 29 would be 90 days from the February 29 low. The week beginning May 30 would be 
three months from the Feb. 29 low. Gold very often has a change in trend upon the completion 
of one of Gann’s natural time cycles of 30, 60,90, and 180 interval periods. | would look at 
the week beginning May 30 as a high probability change in trend period and a likely time to 
expect the completion of the B-wave cycle. 
One June second, gold had the widest range day in months and broke out of the triple top 
at the important 38.2% retracement level of 480. A breakout above a triple top usually indicates 
and results in an explosive rally. | didn’t trust this breakout. In the larger picture the correction 
from the December 1987 top did not look complete. The week of the breakout completes the 
90-day and three month cycle and strongly indicates a likely high and completion of the B-wave 
cycle. Just one day following the June third breakout results in a strong indication the breakout is 
false. June third results in a key reversal day. Price opened below the prior day’s low, moved to 
a new intraday high and closed below the day’s open and the prior day’s close. Strong indication 
of a reversal in trend. Two trading days later price closes down sharply below the triple top zone, 
a confirmation of the breakout was false. | go short at 476 near the close of June seventh. A Stop 
is placed at 482, just above the day’s high. Price and time activity has confirmed that the B-wave 
cycle is likely complete and a strong move down can be anticipated. 
Within three weeks prices have moved down to the area of the A-wave lows of February 
29. I’ve moved my stop down to 472, just above the first swing high. I’m tempted to take profits 
or a least tighten up the stop considerably as prices near the February low. However, the price 
objectives for the C-wave indicate prices will likely exceed the February low. 
On July 25 the market closes down over $16 on the wildest range day in over six months 
Traders World 
82

--- PAGE 24 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         83
with a strong close below the double bottom near 442. I move my protective stop down to 
462, just about the most recent swing high and anticipate the market will move sharply lower 
following this breakdown. A bid disappointment results as the market immediately rebounds 
back above the double bottom. The market essentially moves sideways over the next two weeks 
with another move below the recent lows with still no follow thru.
This brings us up to the time this is being written (mid-Aug.). I’m protably short from 
476 with my stop at 462,  this insures a $l4 prot ($l400 per con-tract). However, I’m in the 
market for the larger moves. Price, time and pattern activity do not yet suggest the move is 
over. Let’s take a brief look at what we might expect in the weeks ahead and the parameters 
for time, price, and pattern activity.
Pattern Objectives: In a normal ABC correction to an extended rally, the C-wave will be 
lower than the A-wave low and in a proportion relating to the A-wave. Prices have barely 
exceeded the February lows and have not yet reached the minimum price objectives for the 
completion of the C-wave. It is likely there will still be lower prices before the completion of 
the C-wave cycle. What if the correction for the December high is going to unfold in a longer 
term Elliot 5 wave pattern and the June top is just the completion of wave two. If this is the 
case, much lower prices can be expected. That’s ne by me. I’m short from near the June 
high and will take all the market will give.
Price Objectives: The 418-423 zone is the rst level of major support below the double 
bottom near 440. The A-wave = 101. 61.8% x 101 from the B-wave top at 485 = 423. The June 
3 high at 461 less the June 29 low at 442 = 43. July 21 high at 461 less 43 = 418. This important 
price support zone coincides with the longer term support trendline on the spot continuation 
weekly chart in the August time period. The next major support level lies at 396-397. A 61.8% 
retracement of the February 85 -December 87 rally is at 397. That rally lasted 146 weeks. 
December 87 high at 542 (December 88 contract) less 146 = 396. The nal major level of 
support and most likely the maximum extent of the C-wave is at 384 where the C-wave would 
equal the A-wave. B-wave high at 485 less 101 = 384.
Time Objectives: Week beginning August 8 = 180 weeks from the February 85 low and 34 
weeks from the December 87 high. Week beginning August 15 = 60 weeks from the June 87 
low, 35 weeks from the December 87 high and 24 weeks from the February 88 low. Week of 
August 22 = 100 weeks from the September 86 high. Week of August 29 = six months from the 
February 88 low. February 27 = 180 calendar days from the February 29 low. These are all Gann 
and Fibonacci natural time cycles plus the 35 interval period cycle for gold. Gold’s price was $35 
for years. 35 is an important time and price vibration interval for gold.
The month of August and particularly August 25 completes an important Gann and Fibonacci 
time cycle for gold. On August 25, 1976 gold reached a very important low of $100. From that 
point gold entered a relentless rally into the 1980 high. August is 144 months (12 x 12) or 
12 years from that important low. I will look for a minor or major change in trend in the last 
two weeks of August. If the cycle has not completed in that period. I will look at the week of 
September 19 which includes the fall equinox. Following that period. mid-October indicates a 
minor or major change in trend could occur. Keep in mind that Gann and Fibonacci time cycles 
do not indicate whether a high or low will develop, only that the cycle may come to completion 
and the market may reverse trend. A trader must look to the price and pattern activity going into 
these periods to determine if a trend change is likely.
with a strong close below the double bottom near 442. | move my protective stop down to 
462, just about the most recent swing high and anticipate the market will move sharply lower 
following this breakdown. A bid disappointment results as the market immediately rebounds 
back above the double bottom. The market essentially moves sideways over the next two weeks 
with another move below the recent lows with still no follow thru. 
This brings us up to the time this is being written (mid-Aug.). I’m profitably short from 
476 with my stop at 462, this insures a $14 profit ($1400 per con-tract). However, I’m in the 
market for the larger moves. Price, time and pattern activity do not yet suggest the move is 
over. Let’s take a brief look at what we might expect in the weeks ahead and the parameters 
for time, price, and pattern activity. 
Pattern Objectives: In a normal ABC correction to an extended rally, the C-wave will be 
lower than the A-wave low and in a proportion relating to the A-wave. Prices have barely 
exceeded the February lows and have not yet reached the minimum price objectives for the 
completion of the C-wave. It is likely there will still be lower prices before the completion of 
the C-wave cycle. What if the correction for the December high is going to unfold in a longer 
term Elliot 5 wave pattern and the June top is just the completion of wave two. If this is the 
case, much lower prices can be expected. That’s fine by me. I’m short from near the June 
high and will take all the market will give. 
Price Objectives: The 418-423 zone is the first level of major support below the double 
bottom near 440. The A-wave = 101. 61.8% x 101 from the B-wave top at 485 = 423. The June 
3 high at 461 less the June 29 low at 442 = 43. July 21 high at 461 less 43 = 418. This important 
price support zone coincides with the longer term support trendline on the spot continuation 
weekly chart in the August time period. The next major support level lies at 396-397. A 61.8% 
retracement of the February 85 -December 87 rally is at 397. That rally lasted 146 weeks. 
December 87 high at 542 (December 88 contract) less 146 = 396. The final major level of 
support and most likely the maximum extent of the C-wave is at 384 where the C-wave would 
equal the A-wave. B-wave high at 485 less 101 = 384. 
Time Objectives: Week beginning August 8 = 180 weeks from the February 85 low and 34 
weeks from the December 87 high. Week beginning August 15 = 60 weeks from the June 87 
low, 35 weeks from the December 87 high and 24 weeks from the February 88 low. Week of 
August 22 = 100 weeks from the September 86 high. Week of August 29 = six months from the 
February 88 low. February 27 = 180 calendar days from the February 29 low. These are all Gann 
and Fibonacci natural time cycles plus the 35 interval period cycle for gold. Gold’s price was $35 
for years. 35 is an important time and price vibration interval for gold. 
The month of August and particularly August 25 completes an important Gann and Fibonacci 
time cycle for gold. On August 25, 1976 gold reached a very important low of $100. From that 
point gold entered a relentless rally into the 1980 high. August is 144 months (12 x 12) or 
12 years from that important low. | will look for a minor or major change in trend in the last 
two weeks of August. If the cycle has not completed in that period. | will look at the week of 
September 19 which includes the fall equinox. Following that period. mid-October indicates a 
minor or major change in trend could occur. Keep in mind that Gann and Fibonacci time cycles 
do not indicate whether a high or low will develop, only that the cycle may come to completion 
and the market may reverse trend. A trader must look to the price and pattern activity going into 
these periods to determine if a trend change 
is likely. 
Traders World 
83

--- PAGE 25 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         84
The U.S. Dollar and the Swiss Franc 
By Marcus Robinson
B
efore we embark upon a dissertation on our interpretation of the valid Elliott Wave 
count, let us briey review this complex work so that we may provide ourselves with 
some common understanding of this intricate market theory. The Wave Theory was 
developed by R.N. Elliott to explain the aggregate decisions made in the markets at large. In 
short, the theories suggest that prices follow a basic eight-wave pattern, an impulse pattern of 
ve advancing waves in the direction of the prevailing price trend and three corrective waves, 
retracing the price action of the impulse wave. There are additional triangular and rectangular 
price formations which are more complex in nature than those of the impulse or corrective variety, 
but nonetheless serve as trading sequences within the basic pattern.
Our interpretation of the wave count in the Swiss Franc is as follows: Our preferred count 
suggests that minor wave ve of primary wave ve peaked late last year on December 31 at 
75.55 basis the nearest futures contract. The ensuing price pattern in a downward impulse 
wave (a ve-waves down pattern) which is now in the process of putting in the price low of 
intermediate wave three of minor wave A (see gure 1).
Our interpretation in the U.S. Dollar Index is a perfect mirror image of the wave count we’ve 
provided for the Swiss Franc. The reasoning behind this phenomena is that we view the role of 
both markets as being quite similar in the overall currency markets. In our view, the Swiss Franc 
is in itself a basket of currencies’ as is the Dollar Index because, as is well known, the Swiss 
are the bankers of the world. The Swiss Franc, on one hand, is backed partially by gold and by 
an international banking system which literally serves as the ultimate bank vault for the Western 
world. The U.S. Dollar Index was specically designed to reect the value of the greenback 
in terms of the world currencies from the economically advanced western world. We feel the 
comparison is worthy to note and is one of the reasons we have isolated these two markets as 
the major focus of our efforts in the currency markets.
As the theory goes, traders should expect to see a corrective rally emerge from here which 
will eventually give way to another ve-waves down pattern which will be correctly labeled 
intermediate wave ve of minor wave A.
From this low, we may expect a good sized advance. Since this will be a corrective wave it 
will be correctly counted as a three-wave advance. Once this upside correction completes itself 
(labeled intermediate wave B), traders should then be prepared for a spectacular decline into our 
The U.S. Dollar and the Swiss Franc 
By Marcus Robinson 
count, let us briefly review this complex work so that we may provide ourselves with 
some common understanding of this intricate market theory. The Wave Theory was 
developed by R.N. Elliott to explain the aggregate decisions made in the markets at large. In 
short, the theories suggest that prices follow a basic eight-wave pattern, an impulse pattern of 
five advancing waves in the direction of the prevailing price trend and three corrective waves, 
retracing the price action of the impulse wave. There are additional triangular and rectangular 
price formations which are more complex in nature than those of the impulse or corrective variety, 
but nonetheless serve as trading sequences within the basic pattern. 
Our interpretation of the wave count in the Swiss Franc is as follows: Our preferred count 
suggests that minor wave five of primary wave five peaked late last year on December 31 at 
75.55 basis the nearest futures contract. The ensuing price pattern in a downward impulse 
wave (a five-waves down pattern) which is now in the process of putting in the price low of 
intermediate wave three of minor wave A (see figure 1). 
Our interpretation in the U.S. Dollar Index is a perfect mirror image of the wave count we’ve 
provided for the Swiss Franc. The reasoning behind this phenomena is that we view the role of 
both markets as being quite similar in the overall currency markets. In our view, the Swiss Franc 
is in itself a basket of currencies’ as is the Dollar Index because, as is well known, the Swiss 
are the bankers of the world. The Swiss Franc, on one hand, is backed partially by gold and by 
an international banking system which literally serves as the ultimate bank vault for the Western 
world. The U.S. Dollar Index was specifically designed to reflect the value of the greenback 
in terms of the world currencies from the economically advanced western world. We feel the 
comparison is worthy to note and is one of the reasons we have isolated these two markets as 
the major focus of our efforts in the currency markets. 
As the theory goes, traders should expect to see a corrective rally emerge from here which 
will eventually give way to another five-waves down pattern which will be correctly labeled 
intermediate wave five of minor wave A. 
From this low, we may expect a good sized advance. Since this will be a corrective wave it 
will be correctly counted as a three-wave advance. Once this upside correction completes itself 
(labeled intermediate wave B), traders should then be prepared for a spectacular decline into our 
Ba 
we embark upon a dissertation on our interpretation of the valid Elliott Wave 
| 
VA 
A 
: 
\ 1 
; 
fi \ 
. 
va 
i / 
: Nae 
\ ‘ / 
A 
Wi 
vi N 
wl 
V 
Figure 1, Swiss Franc (Primary Count) 
Figure 2, Swiss Franc (Alternative Count) 
‘Figure 3, U.S. Dollar (Primary Count) 
Traders World 
84

--- PAGE 26 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         85
C-wave low as we have indicated in gure 2, our Elliott Wave model.
Our alternative wave count labels the recent peak in currency prices as primary wave 
three of a bull market advance. Under this scenario, the recent decline can be correctly 
counted as an A-B-C type fourth-wave correction of the recent advance. This count would 
be very bullish as it would assert that another impulse wave of minor degree  (very powerful) 
lies directly ahead.
C-wave low as we have indicated in figure 2, our Elliott Wave model. 
Our alternative wave count labels the recent peak in currency prices as primary wave 
three of a bull market advance. Under this scenario, the recent decline can be correctly 
counted as an A-B-C type fourth-wave correction of the recent advance. This count would 
be very bullish as it would assert that another impulse wave of minor degree (very powerful) 
lies directly ahead. 
Fiqure 4, U.S. Dollar (Alternative Count} 
Tamim 
MET 
WEA PURE 
eet bee) Se 
Traders World 
85

--- PAGE 27 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         86
Our road map scenario for the Dollar Index suggests that the low for primary wave C of the 
old bear market was put in last December, registering a low of 85.55 basis the cash contract. 
The recent rally that we’ve heard so much about is the emergence of a new bull market in the 
U.S. Dollar. Minor wave one put in a high of 92.50 last February resulting in a wave two pull back 
into May of this year. The recent upturn that we’ve seen in the market of late is intermediate 
wave three of primary wave one of the new bull market in the dollar. The wave three rally is 
currently in progress and should peak by no later than late October or early November. This 
should make for some pretty good political news given the presidential election this year. Once 
wave three is completed traders should see a sizeable decline in the value of the dollar as most 
major cycles turn down going into next year (see gure 4).
Our alternative scenario calls for an A-wave peak of A-B-C type counter trend rally to be 
put in here, then a brief pullback into late September (to form a B-wave low). Then traders 
should see a nal thrust upward into late October/early November to put in the C wave high. 
Once this corrective trading cycle is complete, traders should see another sizeable decline in 
the Dollar emerge as we bring in the new year.
One of the unique characteristics of our trading model is that it produces exact price and 
time projections using a proprietary form of analysis which includes many of the price and time 
calculations of W.D. Gann and Leonardo Fibonacci de Pisa. Before we bombard you with a choice 
selection of the projections our system has generated, let us review some of the background 
information and formulas which were useful in developing our model.
The basic assumption of numerical systems based upon the work of Leonardo Fibonacci 
is that everything is relative. Not only is it relative, our interpretation of his work asserts that 
the relativity of price and time can be accurately expressed in terms of a ratio. The Fibonacci 
ratios we use most commonly are: .382, .50, .55, .618, and .892. We sometimes use the 
ratios of 1.382, 1.50, 1.55, 1.618, etc. for extended forecasts. A basic application of these 
ratios would be to multiply the measured range of a particular price advance to nd its most 
probable retracement low or to determine the exact time periods for high probability turning 
points in the markets as well.
Before getting into the specic technologies we use in developing our prole, we would like 
to lay a little ground work to establish some basic mutual understanding. We acknowledge the 
existence of natural cycles which have certain affects on our planet, human thought, and emotion 
and thus affecting human behavior (the aggregate of which determines market dynamics). 
Probably a less intimidating approach to this subject is to rename it “cycle analysis” and right 
away there would be a body of cyclical data upon both, for our purposes they are equally which 
we could all agree. There are valid.” The basic difference between several important cycles 
which we the two systems is that heliocentric could easily translate into a planetary movement 
is gauged by the orbit of the format and thus provide a very potent planets around the sun (a 
more scientic and unfortunately misunderstood tech- approach) and geocentric movement is 
technology. These cycles are: (1) The daily gauged by the rotation of the planets cycle seven 
days named after the seven around the Earth (a more esoteric no-medieval planets, (2) the 
monthly cycle). For our purposes we are inter-roughly calculated by the 28.5 day lunar cycle 
primarily with movement of the cycle (new moon to new moon), (3) the outer planets for the 
intermediate long quarterly cycles no one disputes; the term projections and for the shorter 
seasonal cycles of summer, fall, winter, termed projections we are mainly con-and spring. These 
cycles are closely related with the lunar cycle and it’s connected to the heliocentric orbit of the 
vengeance with the heliocentric move-planet Mercury (87.97 days), and  (4) the annual cycles 
the 365.2 days orbit of the Earth around the sun (heliocentric) or  the esoteric notion of a 365 day 
Our road map scenario for the Dollar Index suggests that the low for primary wave C of the 
old bear market was put in last December, registering a low of 85.55 basis the cash contract. 
The recent rally that we’ve heard so much about is the emergence of a new bull market in the 
U.S. Dollar. Minor wave one put in a high of 92.50 last February resulting in a wave two pull back 
into May of this year. The recent upturn that we’ve seen in the market of late is intermediate 
wave three of primary wave one of the new bull market in the dollar. The wave three rally is 
currently in progress and should peak by no later than late October or early November. This 
should make for some pretty good political news given the presidential election this year. Once 
wave three is completed traders should see a sizeable decline in the value of the dollar as most 
major cycles turn down going into next year (see figure 4). 
Our alternative scenario calls for an A-wave peak of A-B-C type counter trend rally to be 
put in here, then a brief pullback into late September (to form a B-wave low). Then traders 
should see a final thrust upward into late October/early November to put in the C wave high. 
Once this corrective trading cycle is complete, traders should see another sizeable decline in 
the Dollar emerge as we bring in the new year. 
One of the unique characteristics of our trading model is that it produces exact price and 
time projections using a proprietary form of analysis which includes many of the price and time 
calculations of W.D. Gann and Leonardo Fibonacci de Pisa. Before we bombard you with a choice 
selection of the projections our system has generated, let us review some of the background 
information and formulas which were useful in developing our model. 
The basic assumption of numerical systems based upon the work of Leonardo Fibonacci 
is that everything is relative. Not only is it relative, our interpretation of his work asserts that 
the relativity of price and time can be accurately expressed in terms of a ratio. The Fibonacci 
ratios we use most commonly are: .382, .50, .55, .618, and .892. We sometimes use the 
ratios of 1.382, 1.50, 1.55, 1.618, etc. for extended forecasts. A basic application of these 
ratios would be to multiply the measured range of a particular price advance to find its most 
probable retracement low or to determine the exact time periods for high probability turning 
points in the markets as well. 
Before getting into the specific technologies we use in developing our profile, we would like 
to lay a little ground work to establish some basic mutual understanding. We acknowledge the 
existence of natural cycles which have certain affects on our planet, human thought, and emotion 
and thus affecting human behavior (the aggregate of which determines market dynamics). 
Probably a less intimidating approach to this subject is to rename it “cycle analysis” and right 
away there would be a body of cyclical data upon both, for our purposes they are equally which 
we could all agree. There are valid.” The basic difference between several important cycles 
which we the two systems is that heliocentric could easily translate into a planetary movement 
is gauged by the orbit of the format and thus provide a very potent planets around the sun (a 
more scientific and unfortunately misunderstood tech- approach) and geocentric movement is 
technology. These cycles are: (1) The daily gauged by the rotation of the planets cycle seven 
days named after the seven around the Earth (a more esoteric no-medieval planets, (2) the 
monthly cycle). For our purposes we are inter-roughly calculated by the 28.5 day lunar cycle 
primarily with movement of the cycle (new moon to new moon), (3) the outer planets for the 
intermediate long quarterly cycles no one disputes; the term projections and for the shorter 
seasonal cycles of summer, fall, winter, termed projections we are mainly con-and spring. These 
cycles are closely related with the lunar cycle and it’s connected to the heliocentric orbit of the 
vengeance with the heliocentric move-planet Mercury (87.97 days), and (4) the annual cycles 
the 365.2 days orbit of the Earth around the sun (heliocentric) or the esoteric notion of a 365 day 
Traders World 
86

--- PAGE 28 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         87
orbit of the sun around the Earth (geocentric). We have only one comment regarding the use of 
heliocentric vs. geocentric astral-psychology and that is “use them   both, for our purposes they 
are equally valid. The basic difference between the two systems is that heliocentric movement 
is gaged by the orbit of the planets around the sun (a more scientic approach) and geocentric 
movement is gaged by the rotation of the planets  around the Earth (a more esoteric notion). For 
our purposes we are interested primarily with movement of the outer planets for the intermediate 
long term projections and for the shorter termed projections we are mainly concerned with the 
lunar cycle and it’s convergence with the heliocentric movement of the planet Mercury.
         
Marcus Robinson, is the editor of The Market Alert and the service is published by Spectrum 
Analytical Services Inc., 7084 Miramar Road, Suite 207, San Diego, CA 92121. (619) 
578-5990.
         
               
orbit of the sun around the Earth (geocentric). We have only one comment regarding the use of 
heliocentric vs. geocentric astral-psychology and that is “use them both, for our purposes they 
are equally valid. The basic difference between the two systems is that heliocentric movement 
is gaged by the orbit of the planets around the sun (a more scientific approach) and geocentric 
movement is gaged by the rotation of the planets around the Earth (a more esoteric notion). For 
our purposes we are interested primarily with movement of the outer planets for the intermediate 
long term projections and for the shorter termed projections we are mainly concerned with the 
lunar cycle and it’s convergence with the heliocentric movement of the planet Mercury. 
Marcus Robinson, is the editor of The Market Alert and the service is published by Spectrum 
Analytical Services Inc., 7084 Miramar Road, Suite 207, San Diego, CA 92121. (619) 
578-5990. 
THE PRICE AND TIME MODEL 
THE SWiSS FRANC 
THE U.S. DOLLAR INDEX 
(nearest contract) 
(nearest contract} 
FIBONACCI PRICE PROJECTIONS 
FIBONACC! PRICE PROJECTIONS 
| 
UPSIDE 
QOWNSIDE 
UPSIDE 
“DOWNSIDE 
PRJECTIONS 
PROJECTIONS 
PROJECTIONS 
. 
\ 
4 
; 
Short Term; 
Chay: GS 7%; 08.4306.87 
83.63769.50. 62.55; 62.18 
pe scree Weeo HEE Lone 
i 
: 
61.31/60.05 
105; 100.47; 112.43 
02.29; 90.96; 67.07 
63.95/69.80; 73.18; 74.52 
; 
138.84; 152.96/155.99 
Long Tern: 
baho Term: 
57.04/56.64 
Leng Term: 
88.55; 83.92; 00.55 
ties reheat 
eT ecacausy 
124.35; 129.05, 134.05 
TTPO? E.B0 
270853 
44.82/43.33; 38.99 
oe eae 
PLANETARY PROJECTIONS 
PLANETARY PROJECTIONS 
UPSIDE 
DOWNSIDE 
UPSIDE 
DOWNSIDE 
PROJECTIONS PROJECTIONS 
PROJECTIONS 
PROJECTIONS 
100.70/102.30, 
93.90; 93.00/91.70; 
105.5/108.7/115.1; 
90.30 
64.40; 68.30/67.70; 69.20 
90.40; 58.70; $4.70 
124.70, 134.30 
67.10; 83.90 
GANN PRICE / PROJECTIONS 
GANN PRICE /PROJECTIONS. 
UPSIDE 
ROWNSIDE 
UPSIDE 
DOWNSIDE 
PROJECTIONS: 
PROJECTIONS 
PROJECTIONS 
PROJECTIONS. 
Soon Tamm, — 
Sat lem: ™ 
08.55/99.61; 100.55; 102.43 
96.68; 98.90; 01.55/80.87 
H 
{otermediate Term: 
108.05; 113.67/115.88; 
sus eal 0; 81.55; 78.43 
70.84; 71.88; 73.45 
81.55760.55; 68.55 
119.30 
75.33/76.27 
56.58; 53.76/82.89 
Lene Term: 
76.38; 72.80; 89.05; 67.18 
Leog Term: 
Lona Teen: 
123,05/124 
53, 
83.08; 84.70/85. 10 
50.95; 49.08; 45.33 
9398.18/138.10141.88,, 
147.42; 153.04 
TIMING MODEL 
TIMING MODEL 
SEPTEMBER: 
NOVEMBER: 
SEPTEMBER, 
NOVEMBER 
172, 9, 12/13, 21/22 
1/2, 8, 16/17, and 
1/2, 9, 12/43, 21/22 
112, 8, 16/17, 28 
F'] 
OCTOBER 
DECEMBER 
OCTOBER: 
DECEMBER: 
3, BT, 13/14, 25 
2,6, 17, 28,31 
3, Gf, 13/14, 
and 25 
2, 8, 17, 28, and 31 
L 
: 
Traders World 
87

--- PAGE 29 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         88
Price Scales and 
the 45 Degree Angle
By Peter A. Pich
A
fter several years of conversations on our customer support line, I have found some 
common misunderstandings that seem to be shared by a number of Gann students. 
One of them has to do with Gann’s lXl, 2X1, 4X1 angles and their relationship with 
the 45 angle.
In Gann’s lesson Geometric Angles he describes the 450 or IXI angle as follows: “The 
rst and most important angle to draw is a 450 angle or a moving trend line that moves up 
one cent per week or I cent per month” Throughout his course material he uses the terms “45 
degree line” and “lXl line” interchangeably.
In today’s markets these terms are seldom the same. When Gann wrote his books and 
courses he traded the soybean market. His charts were scaled at one cent per price division so 
that a 1XI line and a 45 line were physically the same angle. In to days soybean market a chart 
would need to be scaled at four or eight cents per price division in order to make the chart a 
practical size to t on your desk. The important term is not 450 line but rather a line that moves 
up a rate of one cent per day, week, or month. A more descriptive term would be “True 450 or a 
lXl angle that is adjusted for the scale of the chart. On a soybean chart with a scale of 4 cents per 
division the True 450 would have a physical angle as measured with a protractor, of 140. (Tangent 
of 1/4) The line would rise at a rate of one quarter price division per time division. Since the price 
division has a scale of four cents, the one cent per day requirement is satised.
When the PRICES WITH SQUARES module is used in the Ganntrader I software program 
the physical shape of the plotted square is automatically adjusted for the scale of the chart. For 
example, a Square of 144X144 on a chart with a four cent scale would be one fourth as tall as 
its length. The True 450 always runs from one corner of the square to the opposite corner. You 
can over-ride this feature by simply multiplying the price portion of the square by the scale of 
the chart. This will produce a physically square.
Another often asked question is what constitutes a one cent movement for markets and that 
aren’t quoted in cents? The T-Bonds, currencies and S&P 500 are the three examples.
Using a full point in the bonds such as from 86-12 to 87-12 as the basis for the lXl angle is 
not very practical. A full point represents 32 X $31.50 or $1000 which is too large a number for 
an angle that is supposed to rise one point per day, week or month. I have found that treating 
the 1/32 ticks as the price portion of the IXI angles works well if the entire price is plotted in 1/32 
ticks. The Ganntrader I program allows you to multiply the price by any number prior to plotting. 
Multiplying a bond Quote of 86-12 by 32 produces a tick number of 2764. (86 times 32 plus 12 
= 2764) These numbers make a better t with Gann’s square of 90 and 144. Often you’ll nd 
the major highs and lows are multiples of 90 ticks apart.
Commodities, such as the currencies, that are quoted as fractions of a cent should have their 
decimal point shifted to the right prior to plotting. The program was designed for experimentation 
so it is a simple matter to try several decimal point shifts until the correct one is found. For 
example, Swiss Francs at $6500 should be changed to 65.00 or 6500.
Price Scales and 
the 45 Degree Angle 
By Peter A. Pich 
common misunderstandings that seem to be shared by a number of Gann students. 
One of them has to do with Gann’s IXI, 2X1, 4X1 angles and their relationship with 
the 45 angle. 
In Gann’s lesson Geometric Angles he describes the 450 or IXI angle as follows: “The 
first and most important angle to draw is a 450 angle or a moving trend line that moves up 
one cent per week or | cent per month” Throughout his course material he uses the terms “45 
degree line” and “IXI line” interchangeably. 
In today’s markets these terms are seldom the same. When Gann wrote his books and 
courses he traded the soybean market. His charts were scaled at one cent per price division so 
that a 1XI line and a 45 line were physically the same angle. In to days soybean market a chart 
would need to be scaled at four or eight cents per price division in order to make the chart a 
practical size to fit on your desk. The important term is not 450 line but rather a line that moves 
up a rate of one cent per day, week, or month. A more descriptive term would be “True 450 ora 
XI angle that is adjusted for the scale of the chart. On a soybean chart with a scale of 4 cents per 
division the True 450 would have a physical angle as measured with a protractor, of 140. (Tangent 
of 1/4) The line would rise at a rate of one quarter price division per time division. Since the price 
division has a scale of four cents, the one cent per day requirement is satisfied. 
When the PRICES WITH SQUARES module is used in the Ganntrader | software program 
the physical shape of the plotted square is automatically adjusted for the scale of the chart. For 
example, a Square of 144X144 on a chart with a four cent scale would be one fourth as tall as 
its length. The True 450 always runs from one corner of the square to the opposite corner. You 
can over-ride this feature by simply multiplying the price portion of the square by the scale of 
the chart. This will produce a physically square. 
Another often asked question is what constitutes a one cent movement for markets and that 
aren't quoted in cents? The T-Bonds, currencies and S&P 500 are the three examples. 
Using a full point in the bonds such as from 86-12 to 87-12 as the basis for the IXI angle is 
not very practical. A full point represents 32 X $31.50 or $1000 which is too large a number for 
an angle that is supposed to rise one point per day, week or month. | have found that treating 
the 1/32 ticks as the price portion of the IXI angles works well if the entire price is plotted in 1/32 
ticks. The Ganntrader | program allows you to multiply the price by any number prior to plotting. 
Multiplying a bond Quote of 86-12 by 32 produces a tick number of 2764. (86 times 32 plus 12 
= 2764) These numbers make a better fit with Gann’s square of 90 and 144. Often you'll find 
the major highs and lows are multiples of 90 ticks apart. 
Commodities, such as the currencies, that are quoted as fractions of 
a cent should have their 
decimal point shifted to the right prior to plotting. The program was designed for experimentation 
so it is a simple matter to try several decimal point shifts until the correct one is found. For 
example, Swiss Francs at $6500 should be changed to 65.00 or 6500. 
f\ fter several years of conversations on our customer support line, | have found some 
Traders World 
88

--- PAGE 30 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         89
You may also want to try to experimenting with using the minimum price fluctuation 
as the price value in the True 45 angle. The S&P 500 is quoted in ve point increments. 
The True 450 angle might be one that rises at a rate of ve points or 50 points per day, 
week or month.
Gann often charted Eggs using a scale of 13 points per price division. I don’t know if this 
is related to the minimum price uctuation of that market or if he had some other reason. 
The charts I’ve seen have 450 angles drawn on them. With a scale of 13 per division these 
angles rise at a rate of 13 points per day.
In his Cotton Course he describes the 450 or lXl angle as follows: “The rst and always that 
most important angle to draw is a 450 angle or a moving average that moves up 10 points per 
day, 15 points per week or 20 points per month”. This statement would seem to contradict this 
rule of I unit of price per time unit is a IXI angle. For the cotton market these numbers must have 
proven to be the correct point values to be the True 450 angle.
As a rule you will know when you have the True 450 angle when the prices in a normal 
Bull or Bear market follow it up and down. You should see occasional price moves above 
the 450 angle to the 2X1 and below it to the IX2. When you have found the True 450 angle 
for that particular market.
Peter A. Pich is president of Gannsoft Publishing Company and author of the Ganntrader I 
software program, 1670 Riverhend Drive, Leavenworth, WA 98826 (509) 548-5990.
You may also want to try to experimenting with using the minimum price fluctuation 
as the price value in the True 45 angle. The S&P 500 is quoted in five point increments. 
The True 450 angle might be one that rises at a rate of five points or 50 points per day, 
week or month. 
Gann often charted Eggs using a scale of 13 points per price division. | don’t know if this 
is related to the minimum price fluctuation of that market or if he had some other reason. 
The charts I’ve seen have 450 angles drawn on them. With a scale of 13 per division these 
angles rise at a rate of 13 points per day. 
In his Cotton Course he describes the 450 or IXI angle as follows: “The first and always that 
most important angle to draw is a 450 angle or a moving average that moves up 10 points per 
day, 15 points per week or 20 points per month”. This statement would seem to contradict this 
rule of | unit of price per time unit is a IX! angle. For the cotton market these numbers must have 
proven to be the correct point values to be the True 450 angle. 
As a rule you will know when you have the True 450 angle when the prices in a normal 
Bull or Bear market follow it up and down. You should see occasional price moves above 
the 450 angle to the 2X1 and below it to the IX2. When you have found the True 450 angle 
for that particular market. 
Peter A. Pich is president of Gannsoft Publishing Company and author of the Ganntrader | 
software program, 1670 Riverhend Drive, Leavenworth, WA 98826 (509) 548-5990. 
Traders World 
89

--- PAGE 31 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         90
Gann’s Annual Forecasts
Part l
By Chuck Carpino
T
his article will review some of the predictions of W.D. Gann that were made in his Annual 
Forecasts. The Forecasts for 1919 to l922 can be found in his The Truth of the Tape. His 
1929 Forecast is from the 1930 Wall Street Stock Selector. Gann’s prediction method 
was unique because he attempted to provide his subscribers with specic trend forecasts, 
extreme high or low points, and bull or bear cycle swings. The fact that Gann did this for over 
four decades, could provide written testimonials, and audited brokerage statements of his prots 
is a tribute to his forecasting genius. As I review some of his forecasts, you should always keep 
in mind that they were prepared a year in advance.
In his Forecasts, Gann prepared a Stock Curve as well as a Railroad Curve when it was 
necessary. The Stock Curve was made up of 20 industrial stocks of his day and I suspect it 
deviated off its projected path more than the Railroad Curve. The reason is because there are 
so many industrial groups in the 20 stocks that news events of a major breakthrough in one 
or two industries would send those stocks up while the general trend should be falling, and it 
altered the curve. The same reasoning would apply as to why his grain and cotton forecasts 
seem much more accurate than his stock forecasts on a month to month basis. In making up 
his stock forecast, he considered his Curve for Interest Rates and the various commodities 
he tracked. This was probably to obtain some guide as to the inationary pressures of his 
time. He then came up with an interpretation of their interaction, along with his numerous 
other methods, he built an annual forecast as to the general trend and strongest up or down 
months as he saw them.
Probably his most famous prediction was that of the 1929 bull market top which he 
accurately forecasted in late 1928. He correctly forecasted the bull move into the summer 
of 1929 and figured late March would mark the low in stocks. Actually, the base for the 
bull market stretched until May 27th before really commencing an upward move. However, 
March 26th was an important low just as he said it would be. You would have made money 
buying your stocks here. He correctly called for a distribution top during the summer months 
of July and August.
He said for September, One of the sharpest declines of the year is indicated. A Black 
Friday is forecasted and a panicky decline in stocks with only small rallies. Extreme high for the 
month around September 2nd to 3rd and a low around September 27th to 28th from which a fair 
sixed rally and a trading market running into the early part of November. After that, the big bear 
campaign will again get under way and stocks will continue to work lower, reaching extreme low 
for the year around Dec. 23rd to 24th.’ Let’s compare this prediction with the actual results. The 
exact date of the top in the industrials occurred on September 3rd at 386 and a vicious decline 
commenced. He did provide his clients with important advice - get out by late August. A nice 
entry point for shorts was also given as September 3rd. Unfortunately, if you has tried to short 
in early August, as he thought the highs would occur here, you would have suffered losses in 
the sharp August advance of 1929 (like August 1987). One of the most important aspects of 
Gann’s Annual Forecasts 
Part 
| 
By Chuck Carpino 
Forecasts. The Forecasts for 1919 to 1922 can be found in his The Truth of the Tape. His 
1929 Forecast is from the 1930 Wall Street Stock Selector. Gann’s prediction method 
was unique because he attempted to provide his subscribers with specific trend forecasts, 
extreme high or low points, and bull or bear cycle swings. The fact that Gann did this for over 
four decades, could provide written testimonials, and audited brokerage statements of his profits 
is a tribute to his forecasting genius. As | review some of his forecasts, you should always keep 
in mind that they were prepared a year in advance. 
In his Forecasts, Gann prepared a Stock Curve as well as a Railroad Curve when it was 
necessary. The Stock Curve was made up of 20 industrial stocks of his day and | suspect it 
deviated off its projected path more than the Railroad Curve. The reason is because there are 
so many industrial groups in the 20 stocks that news events of a major breakthrough in one 
or two industries would send those stocks up while the general trend should be falling, and it 
altered the curve. The same reasoning would apply as to why his grain and cotton forecasts 
seem much more accurate than his stock forecasts on a month to month basis. In making up 
his stock forecast, he considered his Curve for Interest Rates and the various commodities 
he tracked. This was probably to obtain some guide as to the inflationary pressures of his 
time. He then came up with an interpretation of their interaction, along with his numerous 
other methods, he built an annual forecast as to the general trend and strongest up or down 
months as he saw them. 
Probably his most famous prediction was that of the 1929 bull market top which he 
accurately forecasted in late 1928. He correctly forecasted the bull move into the summer 
of 1929 and figured late March would mark the low in stocks. Actually, the base for the 
bull market stretched until May 27th before really commencing an upward move. However, 
March 26th was an important low just as he said it would be. You would have made money 
buying your stocks here. He correctly called for a distribution top during the summer months 
of July and August. 
He said for September, One of the sharpest declines of the year is indicated. A Black 
Friday is forecasted and a panicky decline in stocks with only small rallies. Extreme high for the 
month around September 2nd to 3rd and a low around September 27th to 28th from which a fair 
sixed rally and a trading market running into the early part of November. After that, the big bear 
campaign will again get under way and stocks will continue to work lower, reaching extreme low 
for the year around Dec. 23rd to 24th.’ Let’s compare this prediction with the actual results. The 
exact date of the top in the industrials occurred on September 3rd at 386 and a vicious decline 
commenced. He did provide his clients with important advice - get out by late August. A nice 
entry point for shorts was also given as September 3rd. Unfortunately, if you has tried to short 
in early August, as he thought the highs would occur here, you would have suffered losses in 
the sharp August advance of 1929 (like August 1987). One of the most important aspects of 
Te 
article will review some of the predictions of W.D. Gann that were made in his Annual 
Traders World 
90

--- PAGE 32 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         91
his curve is that it will actually give you reversal dates as either a top or bottom. This is a big 
advantage over having a reversal date and waiting for prices to indicate the current trend before 
you can initiate a trade in the opposite direction. Most of the time the indicated highs or lows 
work out, but alas, no system is perfect and neither was Gann’ s curve for the fall of 1929 correct 
on all points. A small bottom occurred on October 4th, not September 27th - 28th (this could 
be hazardous if prices are in a big decline, which they were) and mounted only a minor rally to 
October 11th before continuing their descent to 195 on Nov. 13, 1929. The nal low was made 
here, not December 23rd. Take a closer look at what did occur on December 23rd. From a high 
point on December 23rd, making a higher low at a price level not to be seen again for another 
seven months. As you can see, his date for a low came in nicely, but it was a higher low. I have 
found it very difcult in prediction to determine if a second low is a nal one, a double low, or a 
higher low. It seems you have to let prices dictate that to you.
Here’s another one of his forecasts where he was very specic. In December 1920, he 
issued his 1921 Forecast in which he said, “The bull campaign top for the Spring culminates 
between April 28th to May 3rd. The month of May indicates serious declines.” He had June as 
being dull and inactive. In actuality, the yearly top was at 80.03 on May 5th, with May 2nd - May 
5th almost at the same price levels. By the end of May, prices had declined in a steady fashion to 
73.44 and made a nal low at 64.90 on June 20th. This was a Forecast which correctly got you 
out of your long and short positions at the right time for a long monthly decline.
What is most interesting about his work is that without price information, he was predicting 
the trend and identifying the dates of tops or lows, and doing it a year in advance. He wasn’t 
always right, but when you look at his high accuracy ratio, you begin to understand what he 
meant by “Once you know the cause of market movements, you can predict the effect, long 
before Wall Street is aware of either.”
Chuck Carpino, 406 Isolde, Houston, TX 77024
his curve is that it will actually give you reversal dates as either a top or bottom. This is a big 
advantage over having a reversal date and waiting for prices to indicate the current trend before 
you can initiate a trade in the opposite direction. Most of the time the indicated highs or lows 
work out, but alas, no system is perfect and neither was Gann’ s curve for the fall of 1929 correct 
on all points. A small bottom occurred on October 4th, not September 27th - 28th (this could 
be hazardous if prices are in a big decline, which they were) and mounted only a minor rally to 
October 11th before continuing their descent to 195 on Nov. 13, 1929. The final low was made 
here, not December 23rd. Take a closer look at what did occur on December 23rd. From a high 
point on December 23rd, making a higher low at a price level not to be seen again for another 
seven months. As you can see, his date for a low came in nicely, but it was a higher low. | have 
found it very difficult in prediction to determine if a second low is a final one, a double low, or a 
higher low. It seems you have to let prices dictate that to you. 
Here’s another one of his forecasts where he was very specific. In December 1920, he 
issued his 1921 Forecast in which he said, “The bull campaign top for the Spring culminates 
between April 28th to May 3rd. The month of May indicates serious declines.” He had June as 
being dull and inactive. In actuality, the yearly top was at 80.03 on May 5th, with May 2nd - May 
5th almost at the same price levels. By the end of May, prices had declined in a steady fashion to 
73.44 and made a final low at 64.90 on June 20th. This was a Forecast which correctly got you 
out of your long and short positions at the right time for a long monthly decline. 
What is most interesting about his work is that without price information, he was predicting 
the trend and identifying the dates of tops or lows, and doing it a year in advance. He wasn’t 
always right, but when you look at his high accuracy ratio, you begin to understand what he 
meant by “Once you know the cause of market movements, you can predict the effect, long 
before Wall Street is aware of either.” 
Chuck Carpino, 406 Isolde, Houston, TX 77024 
Traders World 
91

--- PAGE 33 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         92
Short-Term Market Forecasting 
via
Astrology
By Carol S. Mull
T
he market moves through periods of optimism, expansion, anxiety, depression, and panic, 
as dictated by the magnetic winds that govern the universe. These periods are known as 
economic cycles. Some economic cycles last for centuries, while others have a duration 
of only a few minutes, hours, or days. It is possible to obtain approximate market predictions 
via analyzing these sequences and projecting them forward, but more accurate predictions 
can be produced through astrology.
Astrology requires the exact computation of when and where the planetary bodies 
will reach exact aspects such as 900, 1 80~, I 200 from one another. Correlations have 
been found between planetary aspects and economics cycles. Today the theory that the 
magnetic forces generated by planetary aspects cause cycles is gaining acceptance by 
cyclic theorists and astrologers.
Like all astrological forecasting, nancial astrology does not yield exact results, but its study 
can give indications that have a high degree of probability. The best results of all can be obtained 
when astrology is combined with the usual fundamental/technical methods.
Sun/Moon Aspects
The astrological aspects that are the easiest to learn and use are those between the sun and 
moon (these can be found in an almanac). Sun/moon aspects are so important to the market that 
you can be correct about 80 percent of the time if you use only this type of aspect.
The sun and moon are conjunct at the new moon, and unless overshadowed behavior 
aspects, the market can be expected to move upward at that time. The sun and moon are in 
square aspect (90 0) at the rst quarter and last quarter, and a bear market is the normal result. 
The sun and moon are in opposition (1800) at the full moon, which usually brings a somewhat 
bullish market, but is not as positive as the new moon.
short- Term Market Forecasting 
via 
Astrology 
By Carol S. Mull 
as dictated by the magnetic winds that govern the universe. These periods are known as 
economic cycles. Some economic cycles last for centuries, while others have a duration 
of only a few minutes, hours, or days. It is possible to obtain approximate market predictions 
via analyzing these sequences and projecting them forward, but more accurate predictions 
can be produced through astrology. 
Astrology requires the exact computation of when and where the planetary bodies 
will reach exact aspects such as 900, 1 80~, | 200 from one another. Correlations have 
been found between planetary aspects and economics cycles. Today the theory that the 
magnetic forces generated by planetary aspects cause cycles is gaining acceptance by 
cyclic theorists and astrologers. 
Like all astrological forecasting, financial astrology does not yield exact results, but its study 
can give indications that have a high degree of probability. The best results of all can be obtained 
when astrology is combined with the usual fundamental/technical methods. 
iE 
market moves through periods of optimism, expansion, anxiety, depression, and panic, 
Sun/Moon Aspects 
The astrological aspects that are the easiest to learn and use are those between the sun and 
moon (these can be found in an almanac). Sun/moon aspects are so important to the market that 
you can be correct about 80 percent of the time if you use only this type of aspect. 
The sun and moon are conjunct at the new moon, and unless overshadowed behavior 
aspects, the market can be expected to move upward at that time. The sun and moon are in 
square aspect (90 0) at the first quarter and last quarter, and a bear market is the normal result. 
The sun and moon are in opposition (1800) at the full moon, which usually brings a somewhat 
bullish market, but is not as positive as the new moon. 
Traders World 
92

--- PAGE 34 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         93
Sun/moon trines (1200) come halfway between the opposition and the rst quarter or last 
quarter; they are indicators of bull markets.
Since aspects cast their inuences before them, the expected effect will usually come the 
day before the aspect is exact. When it does reach exactness, it is all over.
Sunspots
Periods of solar prominence (sunspots) pour forth energy, causing all earthly activities to 
increase-including stock market trading. The usual result of this stimulus is a major market 
turning point, either up or down.
Increased sunspot activity occurs whenever the planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, and Jupiter 
are on the same side as the earth. The greatest inuence of all this tidal-like force occurs when 
Jupiter and Venus are in a helio-centric line-up with the earth at 0~, 450, and 900, but lesser 
activity produces the well-known Dow cycles of 89 weeks, 124 weeks, and 208 weeks.
A very good illustration of this market indicator occurred last October 19 when the market 
dropped 505 points. Jupiter was exactly opposite the sun, increasing solar ares and market 
timing-thus forcing a turning point.
So, be aware that aspects to the sun mark major market turning points, both up and 
down. For exact timing, you will need to construct a helio-centric chart. Most computer 
programs have this option.
The Total Picture-Positive or Negative
Another valuable tool in short-term market forecasting is to tally all the aspects in the sky on 
a given day. This method was originated by David Williams, author of Financial Astrology, but I 
have altered his method somewhat. What I do is list the aspects that are within a degree of orb 
on a given day over New York City within market hours, plus the more important ones that fall 
after or before the market is open. I then assign a numerical value to each aspect: Conjunctions 
are ten, sextiles are three, trines ten, and oppositions six. In general, conjunctions, sextiles, 
and trines are positive, while squares and oppositions are negative, but this can be overridden 
by the nature of the planets involved. Saturn and Mars are always negative; Jupiter, Venus, 
and the sun are always positive.
When my list is complete I simply add my negative column, and then my positive column. 
If I have -84 and +15, I denitely expect a down-day at the market. Plus 64 and minus 16 
would indicate a bull market.
This method of analysis works because it is an overall indication of how the majority 
of people will be feeling. If the populace is feeling depressed and fearful (Saturn/Neptune), 
they are apt to sell their stock.
Most Ephemeris’s (catalog-type books listing all the planetary positions at Midnight by noon] 
at Greenwich, England on a daily basis) have an aspectarian section. Or computer programs are 
available. Or ‘Dell Horoscope” magazine carries a aspectarian section in each issue.
This same method of tally aspects can be used on an hourly basis, or even fifteen 
minutes.
Another interesting experiment is to run charts for New York City for every half-hour for a 
given market day. Then, armed with your sixteen charts, sit back and watch the ticker tape. The 
sun, Mercury, and Venus will be in the mid-heaven around noon each day, which will produce 
a slight but noticeable rally. When Uranus is in the Midheaven, the market will be erratic; 
Saturn will bring a down-turn; Neptune will bring active trading in oils and drugs. Anyway, you 
Sun/moon trines (1200) come halfway between the opposition and the first quarter or last 
quarter; they are indicators of bull markets. 
Since aspects cast their influences before them, the expected effect will usually come the 
day before the aspect is exact. When it does reach exactness, it is all over. 
Sunspots 
Periods of solar prominence (sunspots) pour forth energy, causing all earthly activities to 
increase-including stock market trading. The usual result of this stimulus is a major market 
turning point, either up or down. 
Increased sunspot activity occurs whenever the planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, and Jupiter 
are on the same side as the earth. The greatest influence of all this tidal-like force occurs when 
Jupiter and Venus are in a helio-centric line-up with the earth at O~, 450, and 900, but lesser 
activity produces the well-known Dow cycles of 89 weeks, 124 weeks, and 208 weeks. 
A very good illustration of this market indicator occurred last October 19 when the market 
dropped 505 points. Jupiter was exactly opposite the sun, increasing solar flares and market 
timing-thus forcing a turning point. 
So, be aware that aspects to the sun mark major market turning points, both up and 
down. For exact timing, you will need to construct a helio-centric chart. Most computer 
programs have this option. 
The Total Picture-Positive or Negative 
Another valuable tool in short-term market forecasting is to tally all the aspects in the sky on 
a given day. This method was originated by David Williams, author of Financial Astrology, but | 
have altered his method somewhat. What | do is list the aspects that are within a degree of orb 
on a given day over New York City within market hours, plus the more important ones that fall 
after or before the market is open. | then assign a numerical value to each aspect: Conjunctions 
are ten, sextiles are three, trines ten, and oppositions six. In general, conjunctions, sextiles, 
and trines are positive, while squares and oppositions are negative, but this can be overridden 
by the nature of the planets involved. Saturn and Mars are always negative; Jupiter, Venus, 
and the sun are always positive. 
When my list is complete | simply add my negative column, and then my positive column. 
If 
| have -84 and +15, | definitely expect a down-day at the market. Plus 64 and minus 16 
would indicate a bull market. 
This method of analysis works because it is an overall indication of how the majority 
of people will be feeling. If the populace is feeling depressed and fearful (Saturn/Neptune), 
they are apt to sell their stock. 
Most Ephemeris’s (catalog-type books listing all the planetary positions at Midnight by noon] 
at Greenwich, England on a daily basis) have an aspectarian section. Or computer programs are 
available. Or ‘Dell Horoscope” magazine carries a aspectarian section in each issue. 
This same method of tally aspects can be used on an hourly basis, or even fifteen 
minutes. 
Another interesting experiment is to run charts for New York City for every half-hour for a 
given market day. Then, armed with your sixteen charts, sit back and watch the ticker tape. The 
sun, Mercury, and Venus will be in the mid-heaven around noon each day, which will produce 
a slight but noticeable rally. When Uranus is in the Midheaven, the market will be erratic; 
Saturn will bring a down-turn; Neptune will bring active trading in oils and drugs. Anyway, you 
Traders World 
93

--- PAGE 35 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         94
will be able to observe the effects of different planets and aspects as they move across the 
midheaven on a minute-by minute basis.
Mars aspects
The planet Mars acts as a “trigger” for certain undesirable long term stock market 
movements, whenever this planet is square or opposes one of the outer planets. In fact, the 
stock market is 70 percent likely to develop a downward trend whenever Mars is in conjunction 
with one or more outer planets and simultaneously pattern is not alleviated by trines and sextiles. 
The orb for the square should be 50, but 80 can be allowed for the opposition. The following 
aspects are especially bad for the market: Mars conjunct Saturn, Mars square Neptune, Mars 
opposite Jupiter, Mars in opposition--regardless of the planet. All Martian retrograde stations 
should be regarded as critical to the market. In contrast, stock prices have consistently risen 
during the thirty days just before a conjunction of Mars with Jupiter or Mercury.
January and September Highs
The market is usually up January 9th through the 18th. This is because the sun reaches 
23-25 Capricorn in mid-January, which produces a grand trie with Mercury at 24 Tarus 
in the New York Stock Exchange chart, sun at 26 Taurus in the NYSE chart, seventh 
house cusp of NYSE chart, Neptune at 20 Virgo in the chart of the U.S.A., and Pluto at 24 
Capricorn in the chart of the U.S.A. A similar effect happens each September when transit 
sun reaches 18-27 Virgo.
Retrograde Mercury
The planet Mercury rules trade and commerce as well as communication. Whenever it is in 
retrograde motion the market becomes sluggish, listless.
Eclipses
Eclipses bring an erratic, unpredictable market while they are overhead. Then, for about six 
months afterwards, that spot in the sky is sensitized. Whenever another planet, especially Mars, 
comes into aspect with that point, the market is likely to fall sharply.
Conclusion
I think of astrology as neither an art nor a science, but as a discipline. That is, it works in 
the same way that medicine, jurisprudence, and the ministry work. There is a body of principals 
and laws at the core of astrology, but these must be in the hands of a skilled and experienced 
astrologer who exercises capable judgement for good results. Like medicine, law, and theology, 
astrology may not always give quantiable results--but it works, nonetheless.
If you wish to use it for market prediction, you should rst learn the fundamentals. Since 
there are many charlatans around, I recommend that you contact the American Federation of 
Astrologers, Inc., P.O. Box 22040. Tempe, Arizona, 85282, phone (602)838-1751, and ask 
them for the name of a qualied teacher who lives near you. When you’ve mastered the basics, 
I have a mail order Course in Business and Investment Astrology.
My newsletter, “The Wall Street Astrologer,” can be understood by both the trained 
astrologer and the non-astrologer. Send for a sample copy.
will be able to observe the effects of different planets and aspects as they move across the 
midheaven on a minute-by minute basis. 
Mars aspects 
The planet Mars acts as a “trigger” for certain undesirable long term stock market 
movements, whenever this planet is square or opposes one of the outer planets. In fact, the 
stock market is 70 percent likely to develop a downward trend whenever Mars is in conjunction 
with one or more outer planets and simultaneously pattern is not alleviated by trines and sextiles. 
The orb for the square should be 50, but 80 can be allowed for the opposition. The following 
aspects are especially bad for the market: Mars conjunct Saturn, Mars square Neptune, Mars 
opposite Jupiter, Mars in opposition--regardless of the planet. All Martian retrograde stations 
should be regarded as critical to the market. In contrast, stock prices have consistently risen 
during the thirty days just before a conjunction of Mars with Jupiter or Mercury. 
January and September Highs 
The market is usually up January 9th through the 18th. This is because the sun reaches 
23-25 Capricorn in mid-January, which produces a grand trifle with Mercury at 24 Tarus 
in the New York Stock Exchange chart, sun at 26 Taurus in the NYSE chart, seventh 
house cusp of NYSE chart, Neptune at 20 Virgo in the chart of the U.S.A., and Pluto at 24 
Capricorn in the chart of the U.S.A. A similar effect happens each September when transit 
sun reaches 18-27 Virgo. 
Retrograde Mercury 
The planet Mercury rules trade and commerce as well as communication. Whenever it is in 
retrograde motion the market becomes sluggish, listless. 
Eclipses 
Eclipses bring an erratic, unpredictable market while they are overhead. Then, for about six 
months afterwards, that spot in the sky is sensitized. Whenever another planet, especially Mars, 
comes into aspect with that point, the market is likely to fall sharply. 
Conclusion 
| think of astrology as neither an art nor a science, but as a discipline. That is, it works in 
the same way that medicine, jurisprudence, and the ministry work. There is a body of principals 
and laws at the core of astrology, but these must be in the hands of a skilled and experienced 
astrologer who exercises capable judgement for good results. Like medicine, law, and theology, 
astrology may not always give quantifiable results--but it works, nonetheless. 
If you wish to use it for market prediction, you should first learn the fundamentals. Since 
there are many charlatans around, | recommend that you contact the American Federation of 
Astrologers, Inc., P.O. Box 22040. Tempe, Arizona, 85282, phone (602)838-1751, and ask 
them for the name of a qualified teacher who lives near you. When you’ve mastered the basics, 
| have a mail order Course in Business and Investment Astrology. 
My newsletter, “The Wall Street Astrologer,” can be understood by both the trained 
astrologer and the non-astrologer. Send for a sample copy. 
Traders World 
94

--- PAGE 36 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         95
Using Holography to Trade the 
Markets
By Kevin K. LaRocca, CTA
A
nyone who has studied the commodity market for a period of time has had an underlying 
sense of an order to the market, but they have fallen short because their approaches 
limited their scope of the full picture. Most of these approaches have exposed portions of 
this order, but have failed to reveal the complete picture.
In the past few years a new breakthrough in scientic technology has been developed, 
enabling us to accomplish such a feat. This major breakthrough is the science of holography.
The word ‘holography’ is derived from the words “holo” (complete) and “gram” (message). 
As the above words indicate, holograms capture, through a pictorial process, all the visual 
aspects of an object. In other words, it presents objects in a three-dimensional photographic 
format. A standard photograph, in comparison, merely collapses a three-dimensional object 
into a two-dimensional plane.
It is through the characteristics of this unique photographic process that we are able to 
expose the true order behind all market movement. In order to understand how holography is 
utilized to predict future turning points in the markets, we must rst examine the characteristics 
of a hologram.
Holography is different than traditional methods of three-dimensional presentation because 
it utilizes laser technology. It is a simple process of photography recording the patterns formed 
by two interfering sets of light waves that are reected off of an object. One of these must be a 
reference wave. It is this reference wave source that will nally be used to reconstruct for the 
viewer the originally recorded scene. These interfering sets of light waves are recorded on a 
special plate designed to capture and record the waves at the angles at which they are reected. 
By simply shining the reference laser through the negative plate, the original wave patterns 
are reconstructed and the object is once again seen in its three-dimensional form. Without the 
proper light source, the negative plate appears as a meaningless pattern of swirls. Only with the 
Using Holography to Trade the 
Markets 
By Kevin K. LaRocca, CTA 
sense of an order to the market, but they have fallen short because their approaches 
limited their scope of the full picture. Most of these approaches have exposed portions of 
this order, but have failed to reveal the complete picture. 
In the past few years a new breakthrough in scientific technology has been developed, 
enabling us to accomplish such a feat. This major breakthrough is the science of holography. 
The word ‘holography’ is derived from the words “holo” (complete) and “gram” (message). 
As the above words indicate, holograms capture, through a pictorial process, all the visual 
aspects of an object. In other words, it presents objects in a three-dimensional photographic 
format. A standard photograph, in comparison, merely collapses a three-dimensional object 
into a two-dimensional plane. 
It is through the characteristics of this unique photographic process that we are able to 
expose the true order behind all market movement. In order to understand how holography is 
utilized to predict future turning points in the markets, we must first examine the characteristics 
of a hologram. 
Holography is different than traditional methods of three-dimensional presentation because 
it utilizes laser technology. It is a simple process of photography recording the patterns formed 
by two interfering sets of light waves that are reflected off of an object. One of these must be a 
reference wave. It is this reference wave source that will finally be used to reconstruct for the 
viewer the originally recorded scene. These interfering sets of light waves are recorded on a 
special plate designed to capture and record the waves at the angles at which they are reflected. 
By simply shining the reference laser through the negative plate, the original wave patterns 
are reconstructed and the object is once again seen in its three-dimensional form. Without the 
proper light source, the negative plate appears as a meaningless pattern of swirls. Only with the 
f\ nyone who has studied the commodity market for a period of time has had an underlying 
en 
ae a ae i 
Fire 
Son a 
ES ee 
POR 
em I 
7] 
—= 
Se 
Tee eet ee 
7 
5 
+ 
| 
py aR 
ee 
: 
n 
I 
I 
4 att 
CGharta Courtesy of: 
Comradity Quote-Graphics 
(SOG) 525-7007 
Charts Courtesy uf: 
ComMOgi 
ty Uvote=Graphice 
qREO} 525 TORI 
eta FE 
Pers 
& 
fs that toa 
a ar 
El 
a 
ie 
Jee ae x 
id 
ia 
yet 
Siig ta 
Figure 1 
Figure 2 
Traders World 
95

--- PAGE 37 of 37 ---

Traders World                                                                                                                                         96
correct reference wave, can the disorder be brought into perfect order. Perhaps the most unique 
characteristic of a hologram is that the whole image can be seen through any of its individual 
parts. For instance, if one were to view a hologram of a horse, and were to cut one portion 
of the horse (ie, leg) and then enlarge that section to the original size, one would not see an 
enlarged leg, but instead, a picture of the whole horse. Like the negative plate of a hologram, 
the action of the commodity and stock markets seem to be a picture of intermingling wave 
patterns and, like holography, there are also two distinct light (wave) sources which govern 
their behavior. These two sources remain constant, and will never change, for without them, 
there would be no price uctuations.
Once it becomes clear what these two light sources are, we then have the ingredients 
to reconstruct a hologram of the commodity and stock markets. Like the negative plate of 
a hologram, the true order of the markets can be brought into view only through the use of 
the proper reference wave. That is, order, from what appeared to be disorder. As a result 
of this methodology, we are now able to observe the markets in three-dimensional format 
which not only exposes their patterns, but also where all major and minor turning points 
will occur in the future. We also know whether it will be a top or a bottom. It is essentially 
a window into time.
Just like a hologram, we do not need the complete historical price action for a particular 
market, in order to nd the pattern. Through a specialized process, I am able to take a small 
segment of the price action of a particular market and reconstruct the complete pattern. Once 
this pattern is found, it should remain constant, no matter how far into the future we go. Figure 
1 is a weekly chart of heating oil prices from 1983 to January, 1986. The lines super-imposed 
on the chart represent my predicted turning points for this designated time period. As you can 
see, on this weekly chart, my predicted turning points occurred within a few weeks of the actual 
turning point. This shows the trend direction and the duration of the move. In order to narrow 
in on the actual day that a turning point will occur, I will apply the holographic process to a 
daily chart, as shown below in Figure 2.
On the weekly chart (Fig. 1), I predicted a top to occur on November 22, 1985. Knowing 
that I would be close to within a few weeks for that predicted point, I would look for a top 
during that time period on my daily chart (Fig. 2). This predicted point also occurred on 
November 22, 1985. The actual top in the heating oil occurred on November 23, 1985. By 
applying the holographic process, I was able to predict, within one trading day, when a major 
top in the heating oil would occur. 
Kevin K. LaRocca is a CTA with Stotier and Company, 12700 Park Central Place, Suite 215, 
Dallas, TX 7525], (214) 387-4447.
correct reference wave, can the disorder be brought into perfect order. Perhaps the most unique 
characteristic of a hologram is that the whole image can be seen through any of its individual 
parts. For instance, if one were to view a hologram of a horse, and were to cut one portion 
of the horse (ie, leg) and then enlarge that section to the original size, one would not see an 
enlarged leg, but instead, a picture of the whole horse. Like the negative plate of a hologram, 
the action of the commodity and stock markets seem to be a picture of intermingling wave 
patterns and, like holography, there are also two distinct light (wave) sources which govern 
their behavior. These two sources remain constant, and will never change, for without them, 
there would be no price fluctuations. 
Once it becomes clear what these two light sources are, we then have the ingredients 
to reconstruct a hologram of the commodity and stock markets. Like the negative plate of 
a hologram, the true order of the markets can be brought into view only through the use of 
the proper reference wave. That is, order, from what appeared to be disorder. As a result 
of this methodology, we are now able to observe the markets in three-dimensional format 
which not only exposes their patterns, but also where all major and minor turning points 
will occur in the future. We also know whether it will be a top or a bottom. It is essentially 
a window into time. 
Just like a hologram, we do not need the complete historical price action for a particular 
market, in order to find the pattern. Through a specialized process, | am able to take a small 
segment of the price action of a particular market and reconstruct the complete pattern. Once 
this pattern is found, it should remain constant, no matter how far into the future we go. Figure 
1 is a weekly chart of heating oil prices from 1983 to January, 1986. The lines super-imposed 
on the chart represent my predicted turning points for this designated time period. As you can 
see, on this weekly chart, my predicted turning points occurred within a few weeks of the actual 
turning point. This shows the trend direction and the duration of the move. In order to narrow 
in on the actual day that a turning point will occur, | will apply the holographic process to a 
daily chart, as shown below in Figure 2. 
On the weekly chart (Fig. 1), | predicted a top to occur on November 22, 1985. Knowing 
that 
| would be close to within a few weeks for that predicted point, | would look for a top 
during that time period on my daily chart (Fig. 2). This predicted point also occurred on 
November 22, 1985. The actual top in the heating oil occurred on November 23, 1985. By 
applying the holographic process, | was able to predict, within one trading day, when a major 
top in the heating oil would occur. 
Kevin K. LaRocca is a CTA with Stotier and Company, 12700 Park Central Place, Suite 215, 
Dallas, TX 7525], (214) 387-4447. 
Traders World 
96

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 488797963-Spiral-Chart-Gann-Mysteries.pdf
Total Pages: 1
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 1 ---

Gann Mysteries
WELCOME TO GANN
MYSTERIES
HEXAGON CHART
SPIRAL CHART
SITEMAP
Spiral Chart
The Square of Nine (originally called the Spiral Chart) is a tool of technical
analysis which was first popularized by famous market forecaster W. D. Gann.
[1][2][3] The chart first appeared in his corespondence course Master Charts[4],
which is now a part of the W. D. Gann Master Commodities Course[5]. It is
very similar to the Hexagon Chart[3], another chart described in the Master
Charts course.
It is worth noting that Gann’s original use of the term “Square of Nine” refers to
a completely different chart, and he referred to what is now known as the
Square of Nine today as the “Spiral Chart”[4]. However, for some reason, later
authors mixed up the terms and the name “Spiral Chart” has become much
less popular today[2].
Construction
The Square of Nine consists of the integers arranged in the form of a square
spiral.[6] One can construct it using a spreadsheet or graph paper. Place the
number 1 in a central cell; to its left place the number 2; below that is 3, to the
right of 3 is 4 and 5, then above 5 is 6 and then 7. To the left of 7 is 8 and then
9, which completes the first square. To the left of 9 place 10 to start a new
square out, and below 10 place 11, and so on. Below is a simple example
going up to 81:
81
80
79
78
77
76
75
74
73
50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
72
51
26
25
24
23
22
21
42
71
52
27
10
9
8
7
20
41
70
53
28
11
2
1
6
19
40
69
54
29
12
3
4
5
18
39
68
55
30
13
14
15
16
17
38
67
56
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
66
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
Spiral direction
Regarding the direction of the spiral, it appears clockwise in some books[3] and
counterclockwise in others[7]. In the original chart used by Gann, the direction
was counterclockwise[1]. Patrick Mikula explains that it is best to spin the
numbers counterclockwise, because, onto the Square of Nine, Gann liked to
overlay astrological charts, most of which spin counterclockwise[7].
Angular value of each number
Zodiacal relationship in the Square of Nine
In the first volume of Gann Scientific Methods Unveiled[7], Patrick Mikula
assigns the following method to overly the planetary positions on the chart:
The axis going from 1 to 2,11, 28, and so on are 0° or 0° Aries, the spring
equinox (in the Northern Hemisphere, same for below).
The axis going from 1 to 4, 15, 34 and so on are 90° or 0° Cancer,
the summer solstice.
The axis going from 1 to 6, 19, 40, 69 and so on are 180° or 0° Libra,
the autumn equinox.
The axis going from 1 to 8, 23, 46, 77, etc. is 270° or 0° Capricorn,
the winter solstice.
SimpliÕed form and universal fomula
In Predicting Market Trends with Periodic Number Cycles[8], Carl A. Futia
simplified the Square of Nine into a form which he calls the Octagon Chart.
Basically, the Octagon Chart only records the numbers on the Square of Nine
lying on the angles of the 8th harmonic. Here is an example:
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
0°
2
11
28
53
86
127
176
233
298
45°
3
13
31
57
91
133
183
241
307
90°
4
15
34
61
96
139
190
249
316
135°
5
17
37
65
101
145
197
257
325
180°
6
19
40
69
106
151
204
265
334
225°
7
21
43
73
111
157
211
273
343
270°
8
23
46
77
116
163
218
281
352
315°
9
25
49
81
121
169
225
289
361
To calculate any number in between these angles, Futia[8] provided a simple
formula, which is described in the following table:
Futia’s Square of Nine Formula, Explained Step by Step
Step
Description
Operation
1
Let P be the number of which the angle
you are trying to find.
P
2
Minus 1 from P
P−1
3
Take the square root of (P−1).
(P−1)½
4
Multiply (P−1)½ by 180, and then
subtract 225 from it.
180×(P−1)½−225
5
Divide the answer is Step 4 by 360 and
find the remainder.
MOD[180×(P−1)½−225,360]
In all: for any natural number P>1, its approximate angular value A (in
degrees) is given by:
A = MOD[180×(P−1)½−225,360]
For example, from the Octagon Chart, it is known that the angular value of 73
is 225°. Substitute P with 73 into the above formula:
A73 = MOD[180×(73−1)½−225,360] = MOD[180×8.4853−225,360] = 222.35,
which is close to 225.
In Microsoft Excel, if the value of P is input in the cell A1, then the formula to
calculate the angle is MOD(SQRT(A1)*180-225,360). In OpenOffice Calc, the
same formula could be used except that the comma has to be replaced by a
colon. Below are some examples using the formula in Excel:
A
B
(The formula in B)
1
10
344.2099788
<-- MOD(SQRT(A1)*180-225,360)
2
20
219.9844719
<-- MOD(SQRT(A2)*180-225,360)
3
30
40.90060351
<-- MOD(SQRT(A3)*180-225,360)
Angular locations of perfect squares
As easily seen from the above numbers, the odd squares (9, 25, 49, etc.)
progress along the 315° line on the chart. Conversely, the even squares move
closely along the 45° line, which is in the exact opposite direction. This is
different from the Hexagon Chart, when the perfect squares are always 210°
away from each other.
References
1. William Delbert, Gann (1951). How to Make Profits Trading in Commodities: A
Study of the Commodity Market (Revised ed.). Pomeroy, WA: Lambert
Gann. ISBN 0-939093-0-22.
2. Ferrera, Daniel T. (2001). The Gann Pyramid: Square of Nine Essentials. Santa
Barbara, CA: Scared Science Institute.
3. Mikula, Patrick (2012). The Definitive Guide to Forecasting Using W. D. Gann’s
Square of Nine (Revised ed.). Austin, TX: Mikula Forecasting
Company. ISBN 978-0965051866.
4. Gann, William Delbert (1976). Master Charts. Pomeroy, WA: Lambert-Gann.
5. Gann, William Delbert (2004). Gillman, Damien, ed. The W. D. Gann Master
Commodities Course. Wheels in the Sky.
6. Goldberg, Gary (12 December 2003). "Gann's Square Of Nine". Working
Money. Retrieved 17 February 2018.
7. Mikula, Patrick (2012). Gann’s Scientific Methods Unveiled. I (Revised ed.).
Austin, TX: Mikula Forecasting Company. ISBN 978-0965051880.
8. Futia, Carl A. (1982). Predicting Market Trends with Periodic Number Cycles.
Morris Plains, NJ: The Cyclic Forecast
.
Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By  Google Sites
Search this site
Comments
You do not have permission to add comments.
G 
a n n Myste 
ri es 
Search this site 
WELCOME TO GANN 
MYSTERIES 
HEXAGON CHART 
SPIRAL CHART 
SITEMAP 
Spiral Chart 
The Square of Nine (originally called the Spiral Chart) is a tool of technical 
analysis which was first popularized by famous market forecaster W. D. Gann. 
["1l21[3] The chart first appeared in his corespondence course Master Charts!41, 
which is now a part of the W. D. Gann Master Commodities Course!l. It is 
very similar to the Hexagon Chart!*!, another chart described in the Master 
Charts course. 
It is worth noting that Gann’s original use of the term “Square of Nine” refers to 
a completely different chart, and he referred to what is now known as the 
Square of Nine today as the “Spiral Chart”!4]. However, for some reason, later 
authors mixed up the terms and the name “Spiral Chart” has become much 
less popular today!], 
Construction 
The Square of Nine consists of the integers arranged in the form of a square 
spiral. 6] One can construct it using a spreadsheet or graph paper. Place the 
number 1 in a central cell; to its left place the number 2; below that is 3, to the 
right of 3 is 4 and 5, then above 5 is 6 and then 7. To the left of 7 is 8 and then 
9, which completes the first square. To the left of 9 place 10 to start a new 
square out, and below 10 place 11, and so on. Below is a simple example 
going up to 81: 
81 | 80 | 79 | 78 | 77 | 76 | 75 | 74 | 73 
50 | 49 | 48 | 47 | 46 | 45 | 44 | 43 | 72 
51 | 26 | 25 | 24 | 23 | 22 | 21 | 42 | 71 
52 }27)10| 
9 | 8 | 7 | 20 | 41 | 70 
53} 
28) 
11) 
2 | 1 | 6 | 19 | 40 | 69 
54/29) 12) 
3 | 4 | 5 | 18 | 39 | 68 
55 | 30 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 38 | 67 
56 | 31 | 32 | 33 | 34 | 35 | 36 | 37 | 66 
57 | 58 | 59 | 60 | 61 | 62 | 63 | 64 | 65 
Spiral direction 
Regarding the direction of the spiral, it appears clockwise in some books! and 
counterclockwise in others!”!. In the original chart used by Gann, the direction 
was counterclockwisel'], Patrick Mikula explains that it is best to spin the 
numbers counterclockwise, because, onto the Square of Nine, Gann liked to 
overlay astrological charts, most of which spin counterclockwisel”], 
Angular value of each number 
Zodiacal relationship in the Square of Nine 
In the first volume of Gann Scientific Methods Unveiled, Patrick Mikula 
assigns the following method to overly the planetary positions on the chart: 
e The axis going from 1 to 2,11, 28, and so on are 0° or 0° Aries, the spring 
equinox (in the Northern Hemisphere, same for below). 
e The axis going from 1 to 4, 15, 34 and so on are 90° or 0° Cancer, 
the summer solstice. 
e The axis going from 1 to 6, 19, 40, 69 and so on are 180° or 0° Libra, 
the autumn equinox. 
e The axis going from 1 to 8, 23, 46, 77, etc. is 270° or 0° Capricorn, 
the winter solstice. 
Simplified form and universal fomula 
In Predicting Market Trends with Periodic Number Cycles'®!, Carl A. Futia 
simplified the Square of Nine into a form which he calls the Octagon Chart. 
Basically, the Octagon Chart only records the numbers on the Square of Nine 
lying on the angles of the 8th harmonic. Here is an example: 
oi) MV 
Ve) 
Vi 
Vit 
Vil) 
1x 
0° 
(2) 
11) 
28/53) 
86) 127 | 176 | 233 | 298 
45° 3/13) 31 > 57) 
91 | 133 | 183 | 241 | 307 
90° 4/15 | 34/61) 
96 139 190 249 | 316 
135° 5 17 37) 65} 101 | 145 | 197 | 257 | 325 
180° 6 19 40) 69} 106 | 151 | 204 | 265 334 
225° 7 21/43 > 73) 
111) 
157 | 211 | 273 | 343 
270° 8 23 46 77) 
116 163 | 218 | 281 | 352 
315° 9 | 25 | 49 | 81 | 121 | 169 225 289 361 
To calculate any number in between these angles, Futial®l provided a simple 
formula, which is described in the following table: 
Futia’s Square of Nine Formula, Explained Step by Step 
Step 
Description 
Operation 
1 
Let P be the number of which the angle | P 
you are trying to find. 
2 
Minus 1 from P 
P-1 
3 
Take the square root of (P-1). 
(P-1)” 
4 
Multiply (P-1)” by 180, and then 
180x(P-1)7-225 
subtract 225 from it. 
5 
Divide the answer is Step 4 by 360 and | MOD[180x(P-1 )?-225,360] 
find the remainder. 
In all: for any natural number P>1, its approximate angular value A (in 
degrees) is given by: 
A = MOD[180x(P-1)7-225,360] 
For example, from the Octagon Chart, it is known that the angular value of 73 
is 225°. Substitute P with 73 into the above formula: 
A73 = MOD[180x(73-1)”#-225,360] = MOD[180x8.4853-225,360] = 222.35, 
which is close to 225. 
In Microsoft Excel, if the value of P is input in the cell A1, then the formula to 
calculate the angle is MOD(SQRT(A1)*180-225,360). In OpenOffice Calc, the 
same formula could be used except that the comma has to be replaced by a 
colon. Below are some examples using the formula in Excel: 
A 
B 
(The formula in B) 
1/10 344.2099788 | <-- MOD(SQRT(A1)*180-225,360) 
2 20 219.9844719 | <-- MOD(SQRT(A2)*180-225,360) 
3 30 40.90060351 | <-- MOD(SQRT(A3)*180-225,360) 
Angular locations of perfect squares 
As easily seen from the above numbers, the odd squares (9, 25, 49, etc.) 
progress along the 315° line on the chart. Conversely, the even squares move 
closely along the 45° line, which is in the exact opposite direction. This is 
different from the Hexagon Chart, when the perfect squares are always 210° 
away from each other. 
References 
1. William Delbert, Gann (1951). How to Make Profits Trading in Commodities: 
A 
Study of the Commodity Market (Revised ed.). Pomeroy, WA: Lambert 
Gann. ISBN 0-939093-0-22. 
2. Ferrera, Daniel T. (2001). The Gann Pyramid: Square of Nine Essentials. Santa 
Barbara, CA: Scared Science Institute. 
3. Mikula, Patrick (2012). The Definitive Guide to Forecasting Using W. D. Gann’s 
Square of Nine (Revised ed.). Austin, TX: Mikula Forecasting 
Company. ISBN 978-0965051866. 
4. Gann, William Delbert (1976). Master Charts. Pomeroy, WA: Lambert-Gann. 
5. Gann, William Delbert (2004). Gillman, Damien, ed. The W. D. Gann Master 
Commodities Course. Wheels in the Sky. 
6. Goldberg, Gary (12 December 2003). "Gann's Square Of Nine". Working 
Money. Retrieved 17 February 2018. 
7. Mikula, Patrick (2012). Gann’s Scientific Methods Unveiled. | (Revised ed.). 
Austin, TX: Mikula Forecasting Company. ISBN 978-0965051880. 
8. Futia, Carl A. (1982). Predicting Market Trends with Periodic Number Cycles. 
Morris Plains, NJ: The Cyclic Forecast 
Comments 
You do not have permission to add comments. 
Signin 
| Recent Site Activity 
| 
Report Abuse 
| 
Print Page 
| Powered By Google Sites

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 512911483-WD-Gann-Astro-Cycles.pdf
Total Pages: 77
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 77 ---

[OCR] ASTRO-CYCLES
AND
SPECULATIVE MARKETS

by
L. J. Jensen

408, Late,
&,

ot DUB Sy K

c Cee

LAMBERT-GANN PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.
Pomeroy, Washington 99347

v
"0,
2
99347 gM

1978

--- PAGE 2 of 77 ---

[OCR] Copyright 1978 by L. J. Jensen
Copyright 1935, 1938 and 1961
by L. J. Jensen

Published by
Lambert-Gann Publishing Co., Inc.
P. O. Box O, Pomeroy, Wn. 99347

To
LLEWELLYN GEORGE
Pioneer in American astro-research, who gave me a
wotld-wide audience from 1931 to 1954 in his BULLE-
TINA quarterly; Arthur I. Boreman, publisher of the
MERCHANT’S TRADE JOURNAL, who never edited
one word from my business trend comments every month
from 1933 to 1959; and, to Billy Jones who insisted this
material should be printed and published as a heritage
to others to expand their success.

--- PAGE 3 of 77 ---

[OCR] CONTENTS

PREFACE

Section 1
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

AnmAhWN PE

. The Problem of Economic Causation
. The Vibration Spectrum

. The Sun-Spot Cycle .

. The Planetary Cycles

. The Uranus Cycle

. Some Conclusions

Section IT
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION
Foreword

SCOANANAWNH HE

_

. Mundane Rulerships . : :
. Progressions and Transits . . . Do oO
. Synthesis—Estimating Economic Trends .
. The Houses in Mundane and Corporation Charts .
. Eclipses -
. Interpretation of the Planets i in Houses Pal Signs 5
. Casting Mundane Charts

. Notes, Base Charts, Keys

. The United States Birth Chart .

. An “Over”-Simplified Method of

Astro-Cycle Interpretation

. The Aspects or Angles Between Planets oO
. Combining Sign-Houses and House-Signs and Aspects .
. Planetary Aspects or Angular Relationships
. Formation of a Market Forecast

Section III
MARKET CHARTS
Foreword

1.
2.
3.

Geometrical Fundamentals .
First Steps in Charting .
Resistance, Objective and Trend

vii

25

35
39
42
43
45
46
61

65

70
80
82

101
103
107

--- PAGE 4 of 77 ---

[OCR] 4. The Daily Chart .
5. Supplementary Helps

Section IV
1. First Steps Putting It Together .
2. Timing Elements . .
3. Charting the Price Range Data D
4. Estimating Prospects for a Locality .
(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters)

CHARTS AND MAPS (Partial List—see Text)
Outline Map of the World with Zodiacal Rulerships
Outline Map of the United States with Rulerships .
Radix Great Mutation
Rotational Conjunction 1921

Declaration of Independence (United States Chart) .

New York Stock Exchange .
Liverpool Grain Exchange

Bank of England . .
Chicago Board of Trade . .
United States Steel Corporation .

CONTENTS

114
117

121
124
129
132

29
30
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54

PREFACE

The bulk of the material in this edition was published in three
brochures copyright 1935 and 1938. A condensation of the third
brochure on charting market statistics was issued as one of many market
studies while I was an analyst for a New York Stock Exchange firm.
This edition comprises all of the original three works with some addi-
tional material in order to bridge the three into a continuity plus a
number of working examples of methods which apply the principles
involved.

Section I offers some introduction to working applications of what I
term astro-cycles. The sources are the long established astronomical
orbits of the principal planets in that small niche of the Universe which
comprises the Solar System of the Earth. For example, applied to cycle
cadence is Jupiter and Saturn with their apparent conjunction ap-
proximately every 20 years. Many of these planetary cycle applications
were original when published in 1934, but since then have been lifted
out of context and embraced by publications issued in Calcutta, Hong
Kong, London, New York and Los Angeles. The plagiarism is of little
importance but the widespread practice has brought to attention the
unquestioned validity of the data.

The purpose of the material in Section II was a notebook reference
manual to present the salient procedures and elements of astro-cycle
applications to mundane affairs. Public psychology, business cycles, the
price swings of speculative commodity and stock markets, wars, famines,
major weather trends, etc, have innumerable keys to answers by this
concept.

Very little of the material has been co-ordinated before in print so that
a student might quickly grasp the more significant factors. Separately
most of the factors have been generally known but not the why and how
of mixing them. Part of this condition has been intentional: why throw
to the winds hard won data? There is another side though. Modern
society has boxed itself in, painted itself into a dangerous corner. Out-
wardly it is in great shape in its apparent affluence, mechanical achieve-
ments and productive know-how. Actually it is a shell of wasted
resources, mountainous debt, galloping inflation, and eroding moral
concepts. An Age is at an end which is out of date, primitive and self-
righteous with the chest-pounding adage that man is captain of his fate.
He may perish unless he gets down to the reality of Natural Law.

Section II contains no pretense of giving all the answers to modern
Problems. However, it does offer a means to a well-hidden phase of
Truth which might lead to a foundation of security for those diligent
enough to examine and test the data. That such an approach infuriates
those who proudly hold that nature has no design, no purpose and no
form of continuity ceased to concern me more than fifty years ago.

--- PAGE 5 of 77 ---

[OCR] viii PREFACE

A major factor in the workings of Natural Law is cosmic radiation,
that enormous vibrational power of the Sun which is reflected, deflected
and mixed with the vibrational forces of planets striking the Earth in a
constantly varying array. Often it is ponderously stated that none of
these vibrations are strong enough to affect a human being. In almost
the same breath they talk about the possible uses of solar energy. No
matter if proven, or hallowed, or generally accepted as a fact of life it
is always easy to find some clown who vehemently disagrees. Perhaps
the answer is not the defense of the how and the why, but does it.work,
does it give results?

In my youth it was generally accepted that the claim electrical sig-
nals could be transmitted without wires was a complete hoax, equal
only to the idea that man could fly in anything but a balloon. On these
two points alone college professors rated as scientific authorities, plus
office holders who felt they protected the people, were around giving
lectures warning against such idiotic claims.

Here are methods and their working factors of close to a half a cen-
tury of producing results. It is an esoteric subject; it is not for the
average investor who really gets his kicks putting money into an array
of stocks and then every day sweating the price movements. Over the
years he usually ends up with one winner and ten losers. This material
is for the serious winner who has the attitude of a navigator and im-
personally obeys his computations. He is not in markets for kicks but
for profits.

Section III uses some of the basic factors of Section II and applies
them to a system which is a coupling of time and price. It is a simple
charting of market prices. It is so simple any change or revision in the
basic premises involved destroys its effectiveness. It will not work prop-
erly with logarythmic scales, and the dependence on time brooks no
shortcuts or distortion in the arithmetic scale.

September 1977 L. J. JENSEN

Section I

MAJOR TRENDS
IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

Copyright 1935 by
L. J. Jensen
All Rights Reserved

--- PAGE 6 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER ONE

THE PROBLEM
OF ECONOMIC CAUSATION

The habit of popular thinking lies along the vein that all economic
problems are merely debatable theories. All economic affairs are viewed
from much the same perspective as religious or political opinions; as
something entirely dependent on the particular prejudice which happens
to fit the environmental or geographical viewpoint. So it seems strange
to suggest that there may be immutable laws that motivate the psy-
chology of masses of people, and that imponderable forces operate in
economic affairs without respect for the hopes and ambitions of men. At
first glance it might appear that such a postulate should be the source
of considerable popular derision, but perhaps only because the field of
observation has been studiously ignored in modern times. At any rate,
there appear to be several definite forces underlying the ebb and flow of
the economic indices.

It is the purpose, in this brochure and the companion volumes of the
series, to examine considerable evidence bearing on economic causation.
The observations contained in this brochure will deal entirely with the
longer or major trends in American economic history. In the search for
causes the prime interest will be, not to align the historical events with
the coincident statistical business record and dovetail technical results
with psychological effects; but to go deeper and attempt to trace those
natural causes which appear to motivate the changes in mass psychology
and result in given effects. After locating the source or cause we shall
then examine the manner in which natural psychological cycles coincide
with the cycles of statistical business activity.

In confining popular economic observations to a few of the generalities
like supply and demand, costs, available markets and distribution, labor,
et cetera, the subject of economics is principally concerned with statisti-
cal results and psychological effects. Underlying causes of such phenom-
ena as the business cycle have only been studied in a superficial manner.
This will probably continue to be the situation until the search for
causes is taken out of the field of statistics and placed in the field of
psychology. At present, causes of economic fluctuation are either con-
sidered so remote and intangible that they cannot be defined, or else
they are discarded as impractical. Economic effects, or rather statistical
results, are paramount. We see economic effects all about us; we deal
daily in effects, read of them in the news, see them in moving pictures,
and hear them from others. Yet in confining all of our economic thinking
to effects we are much like the remaining few who believe that the en-
tire place of medicine is to be strictly curative and disregard efforts of
anything preventive. Obviously, some approach toward analyzing eco-
nomic causes is in order, if an economy is to be planned or any estimates
are to be taken of the future.

--- PAGE 7 of 77 ---

[OCR] MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

ouer Erlagices ghat mankind is still in that stage of a blundering evolu-
See ey pune effects agin ignoring causes” nt fo Present such
nomi i i ife i
ries neg eee mnie
They cannot be found in laboratory = tubes th Diba tah
business activity, security prices, or in the ° ini " yee jen When
as for causes an these sources, we are ‘simply Pagani hes
thee ners meee ee raste the radio-frequency power that blankets
ceiver. It is impossible to sense the force that shite an eee offecting

for causes that the minori
. ‘ority find the seat of power: i
and a applying the power for desired effects iain
in ane pasis se all causation in human affairs lies in the laws of vibration
5 we step aside from these natural laws we leave the field

c t our mass psychol
, and our entire economic life, is bound up with vibration. A

recting our observation of eco-

nomic causation, to tr Fae
generated, y and locate the coincident effects which might be

CHAPTER TWO

THE VIBRATION SPECTRUM

Sound, light and heat are all forms of vibration. Each field has its
own spectrum or scale of vibration. Sound is an impulse of air striking
the organs of hearing with a perceptible effect. Light is that action
wherein objects are made visible. Heat is another force, similar to sound
and light, in that it has a rate of vibration also. Each of these natural
actions have their spectra occupying niches in the huge vibrational
spectrum of nature.

Modern science indicates that all bodies, unless at the absolute zero

of temperature—assigned by physicists as minus 273 degrees Centigrade
—emit vibrations. Most of these vibrations are not visible to the eye,
sensitive to the touch or audible to the ear. The frequencies, or rates of
vibration, vary from a few cycles per second to millions of cycles per
second and include everything from sound waves to gamma and cosmic
rays.
A crude illustration of the huge vibration spectrum may be made by
drawing a pencil line about a foot long. At the left end of this line
mark an (X). This point illustrates the rate of vibration of the musical
note “B,” four octaves below middle “C” on the piano scale, or thirty
cycles per second. Move to the right on the pencil line about a half
inch from (X) and mark (Y). This point represents a frequency of
5,120 cycles per second, the high musical note “E,” four octaves above
middle “C.” As the rate of vibration rises above approximately 16,000
cycles per second—the pitch of some squeaks—it ceases to be audible
to the human ear. We take this approximate half inch section on the
pencil line to represent the sound spectrum niche of the major vibra-
tional scale.

From the point (Y) move to the right on the pencil line—to establish
the beginning of the electro-magnetic spectrum—about three inches,
marking the point as (Z). This point represents the beginning of the
modern radio spectrum. Moving to the right on the pencil line another
three inches will approximate the radio spectrum, this right hand point
representing frequencies of about sixty thousand kilocycles and wave-
lengths of five meters or less.

Again move to the right on the pencil line, after leaving a gap of
about an inch to represent the lapping of the short wave radio band and
the frequencies of the infra-red and heat rays, the center of which
represents the rate of vibration of the color yellow, or approximately a
rate of vibration of 500,000,000,000,000 cycles per second. In this spec-
trum is the frequency range where the human eye is able to directly
detect the electro-magnetic vibrations we know as light and color. The

eye continues this ability until the rate of vibration increases above that

of the color violet.
Move to the right on the pencil line another quarter inch and mark

--- PAGE 8 of 77 ---

[OCR] 6 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

the point (A). This quarter inch section represents the ultra-violet ray
spectrum on the edge of the x-ray division. From this point (A) to the
extreme right hand end of the pencil line represents the several segments
of; first, the x-rays; then the gamma rays; and finally, the cosmic rays.
In the spectra of gamma and cosmic rays the frequency is so tremendous
that a huge line of figures would be necessary to represent the rate.
The wave length at these frequencies is of the order of one ten thou-
sandth of one ten millionth of a millimeter or less.

Observations indicate that the earth’s atmosphere is permeated with
high frequency radiation of tremendous penetrating power. Although
this force is more intense at great heights than at the earth’s surface, it
is just as intense at night as during the day. At sea level this radiation
breaks up about 1.4 atoms in every cubic centimeter of air per second, so
it cannot be denied that millions of atoms are broken up in every human
body every second. This is the source of distinct biological and in turn,
psychological, changes in people. Far more penetrating than any other
type of vibration it has been found that the most penetrating portion of
these rays will pass through sixteen feet of lead.

It is only very recently that an analysis of the biological and psycho-
logical effects of these rays has been attempted by exact science. How-
ever, the effect of this energy has been observed by man for centuries.
; Simple physics illustrates with a prism how a small segment of sun-
light can be separated into the seven primary colors. On the angle of
refraction of the sun-rays through the prism depends the particular
color in the spectrum. Experiments indicate that a similar type of
refraction process occurs through the planets in their relation to the Sun
and Earth. Radiation on the surface of the Earth is composed of: first,
the rays of the Sun which are refracted by the Earth’s magnetism and
atmosphere; second, the refracted rays of the Sun, each changed in a
particular manner through the angle in which they are reflected from
the planets; and, the radiation of each planet. This condition indicates
that the frequency of solar radiation is much broader than just the light
and heat spectra, covering the entire electro-magnetic spectrum from
tadio waves to cosmic rays.

. We shall now proceed to examine the effects of this radiation in the
light of economics and mass psychology.

yth=

[2

CHAPTER THREE

THE SUN SPOT CYCLE

The Sun, as the center of the Earth’s little niche in the Universe, is
credited with being the source of all of our energy. The Sun is a star,
although it is not the largest, or the brightest, or the hottest star, in the
Universe. But it is the ruler of the solar system of which the Earth is
one unit; and controls the motion of the Earth and all the other planets.

On the surface of the Sun, or its photosphere, often are seen dark
spots, some of which are many times larger than the Earth. The oc-
currence of these spots was noted by the Chinese long before Galileo
used his telescope in 1610. Hale found that at its center a Sun-spot has
the properties of a huge bar magnet. Researches by Schwabe and then
Wolf, which were followed by very systematic observations, show there
is an increase and then a decrease in Sun-spot totality with a “regular —
irregularity” of about 11.2 years. The interval varies in a range of about
four years The movement from maximum to minimum averages about
6.5 years, and the rise from minimum to maximum _ about 4.6 years.

@ extensive researches involving the business cycle, as indicated
in the charted tabulation of the statistics of business activity over a
long term of years, there is a distinct relation between the periods of
prosperity and depression and the Sun-spot cycle. The work financed
by the Harvard committee on research in social sciences has resulted in
tracing this correlation from the 17th century South Sea Bubble down
to the present year. The last Sun-spot cycle began with a minimum of
spots in 1923, a_ maximum in 1928-1929, and another minimum in
1933-1934. Another maximum point is expected late in 1938. The
general averages of Sun-spots for the past 100 years are tabulated on
the next page. Current technical and scientific data is obtainable
through Science Service, Washington, D. C.

A phenomena of Sun-spots is that the measure of solar radiation in
the heat spectrum of vibration shows an increase in the Sun’s heat with
an increase in the Sun-spot totality. Solar radiation at heat and light
frequencies averages close to two horsepower per square meter on the
Earth’s surface. The solar energy constant is usually taken as 1.94
calories. But when Sun-spots are at a minimum this value changes to
about 1.92, and when Sun-spots are near a maximum the value averages
1.96. My conclusion is that this variation in the energy constant affects
the mass of humanity biologically and therefore psychologically, in the
manner reflected by the rise and fall of the statistics of business activity,
or economic energy.

Considerable work has been done in the field of correlating rainfall
and the Sun-spot cycle as a clue to factors in long range weather fore-
casting. The effects of the cycle have been strikingly shown to coincide
with tree ring phenomena. It has also been proven there is a coincidence
between the amount of ultra-violet radiation and Sun-spots. Even the

--- PAGE 9 of 77 ---

[OCR] 8 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

TABLE OF SUN-SPOT AVERAGES

Year Average Year Average Year Average
1837 138.3 1871 _ W212 1905 63.5
1838 103.2 1872 101.7 1906 53.3
1839 85.8 1873 66.3 1907 62.0
1840 63.2 1874 44.7 1908 48.5
1841 36.8 1875 17.1 1909 43.9
1842 24.2 1876 11.3 1910 18.6™
1843 10.7 1877 12.3 1911 5.7
1844 15.0 1878 3.4 1912 3.6
1845 40.1 1879 6.0 1913 14
1846 61.5 1880 32.3 1914 9.6
1847 98.5 1881 54.3 1915 ATA
1848 124.3 1882 59.7 1916 55.4
1849 95.9. 1883 63.7 1917 103.9
1850 66.5 1884 63.5 1918 80.6
1851 64.5 1885 52.2 1919 63.6
1852 54.2 1886 25.4 1920 38.7
1853 39.0 1887 13.1 1921 24.7
1854 20.6 1888 6.8 1922 14.7
1855 6.7 1889 6.3 1923 5.8
1856 4.3 1890 71 1924 16.7
1857 22.8 1891 35.6 1925 44.3
1858 54.8 1892 73.0 1926 63.9
1859 93.8 1893 84.9 1927 68.5
1859 93.8 1893 84.9 1927 68.5
1860 95.7 1894 78.0 1928 77.8
1861 77.2 1895 64.0 1929 65.0
1862 59.1 1896 41.8 1930 35.7
1863 44.0 1897 26.2 1931 21.2
1864 47.0 1898 26.7 1932 11.1
1865 30.5 1899 12.1 1933 5.7
1866 16.3 1900 9.5 1934 8.4
1867 7.3 1901 2.7

1868 37.3 1902 5.0

1869 73.9 1903 24.4

1870 139.1 1904 42.0

marked variation in the pelts of fur-bearing animals, checked over a
long term of years, coincides with the Sun-spot cycle; another biological
effect of Sun-spot phenomena.

Although the business cycle and the Sun-spot cycle coincide very
closely, there have been several lags or discrepancies which science has
been unable to satisfy itself on. The factor of planetary refraction seems
to have been ignored. Yet if we take cognizance of the planetary revolu-
tions in our solar system and check the varying positions in relation to
each other, to the Sun and the Earth, the discrepancies are plain, and
explainable by planetary angles and positions.

THE SUN SPOT CYCLE 9

Apparently then, we cannot use the Sun-spot phenomena alone in
forecasting economic probabilities, but include observations of planetary
cycles and planetary interaction also. We shall approach this field in the
next chapter.

--- PAGE 10 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER FOUR

THE PLANETARY CYCLES

Since the ages of antiquity philosophers have viewed the skies. They
charted the heavens in relation to.a belt or huge circle whose middle
line is the ecliptic or Sun’s path. The signs of the zodiac are the animal
and human forms which seem to be reproduced in the constellations
within this belt. During the 4th century the intellectual zodiac was
computed. It employs the names of the constellations reckoned from the
vernal equinox, each thirty degrees being one sign, irrespective of the
relative positions of the corresponding constellations. In these observa-
tions we use this intellectual zodiac to observe planetary positions and
interaction.

The constellations, through the phenomena of the precession of the
Sear oP che whole-stgu-in-2-160-years The entire revyolutio the
artcttations occliples s pened OF 25020 years. resent time the
nodal point of the circle of constéllations is leaving the sign Pisces, and,
ir the next several years, will enter the sign Aquarius. Pisces is indica-
tive of water, religious aspiration, confinement and restraint. The past
2000 years of history marked exploration by water, the development of
chemistry, medicine, steam and water power; a new religion gripped the
hearts of men that aspired to make man in the image of his god. In-
tolerance and discipline—a form of restraint—in political, economic and
religious thinking was the basis of developing the greatest period of
human initiative in known history.

Aquarius is an air sign that typifies aspirations of unity and the
establishment of the bond of mutual interests. Its effects are a lack of
continuity and stability, but tenacity and decided dependence. The
symbol is brotherhood, being mentally dominant in the idea of social
interdependence with a dislike of all caste systems in human relation-
ships. Where Pisces is water Aquarius is air and ether; and it follows
that the approaching cycle of the Aquarian Age will stress affairs of the
air and ether, such as aeronautics; and those things pertaining to light,
heat and electronics. At the same time the entire political and social
aspects of society will change.

The movements of the planets around the Sun are traced through
the zodiac, and computations of their daily positions are published in
table form called ephemerides. The time of a complete revolution of a
planet around the Sun is termed a planetary year. The earth year is the
standard of measurement. The approximate periods of planetary revolu-
tions are:

Earth—365 days 7 hrs.

Mercury—88 days

Venus—224 days Uranus—84 years

Mars—1 year 322 days Neptune—164 yrs 167 days
Moon—28 days around the Earth

Jupiter—11 yrs 314 days
Saturn—29 yrs 167 days

THE PLANETARY CYCLES 11

Ancient astrology was principally confined to the purposes of divina-
tion, or, foretelling specific events by means of a map of the heavens
drawn at the moment of broaching the question. In modern times the
scientific researcher entirely ignores the practice of interpreting events
from these horary figures. Ancient fatalism has become tinctured with
free-will, and the modern study of planetary interaction and cosmic
vibration is a science that starts where ancient astrology left off.

This new science is thoroughly cognizant with all of the advances and
discoveries of modern science. Its development is based on these dis-
coveries. But it fully recognizes the line of demarcation between the
fatalism of the Ancients and the doctrine of free-will and ego-centric
perspective,—persisted in by current schools of psychology. It is the
undiscovered key to psychology, for it shows that man, individually and
en masse, is impelled along paths that are definitely related to planetary
and other phases of solar radiation.

In checking economic statistics of the business cycle with the periads.
when the major slow moving planets, Saturn, Uranus and Jupiter, are
ninely-of-Gne hundeed Sghty- degress apart in the zodiac, they” are
found to coincide with economic depression. But when the same planets
are sixty or one hundred and twenty degrees apart (in the zodiac) they
coincide with periods of prosperity. This phenomena is discussed in
detail in a companion brochure.

The earth signs of the zodiac, Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn, have
always been closely coupled to American political and financial life.
The passage of planets through these signs in their revolutions tie in
with major events in a startling manner. For the first time in United
States history Jupiter and Saturn began to meet in conjunction in earth
signs just after 1840. Regularly every twenty years since a conjunction
of these two planets has occurred in these earth signs, timing periods of
political upheaval and new agitation, and interest;—in currency, na-
tional credit and financial matters.

Every President, since the inception of these conjunctions in earth
signs, who was elected in these periods, died in office. In 1840 Harrison
was elected and died in office. In 1860 Lincoln was elected. He died in
office. Garfield was elected in 1880 and he died in office. In 1900 it
was McKinley and in 1920 it was Harding. In 1940 it was Roosevelt;
despite increasing disabilities he persisted to re-election in 1944. And
15.1960 the sequence continued with Kennedy. 84

Wild-cat bank notes, following the panic of 1837-1838, became the
“red-dog” variety until agitation for inflation placed all the banks of
Michigan in receivership in 1842. In 1861 federal credit was such that
non-interest bearing notes were ordered, starting the greenback diffi-
culties. After the veto of the inflationary Bland-Allison Act in 1878
silver standard was agitated in the depression of 1882 to 1885. Credit
problems were so great in 1902-03 panic occurred. After 1920 cheap
money and credit was agitated and the Agricultural Act of 1923 re-
sulted.

* This sentence in this 1978 edition brings the cycle to date.

Cs a

1877

--- PAGE 11 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER FIVE

THE URANUS CYCLE

Of the planets comprising the same solar system as the Earth the
recently discovered planet Pluto has the largest orbit, taking the longest
time to go around the Sun. Neptune is next in order, taking aPPrOR.
mately 164 years, 167 days to go around the Sun. The movements °
these planets have coincided with epochal changes in the psychology
of the people, but just now we are more concerned with the manner in
which Uranus has been prominent in American economic history.

Uranus was recognized as being in the heavens in ancient times, but
it was not located.and astronomically discovered until 1781 by William

Herschel. It was first seen in the sign Gemini, and is astrologically at-
tributed to the rulership of Aquarius. is. o . h
The revolution of Uranus is 84 years, or_about seven years in eac:

i the zodiac. When at sensitive angles with other planets, or in
Ser ne points Of the zodiac, its effects are sudden and radical changes,
secrecy, plotting, estrangements, chaos, and action engendered by an
underlying progressiveness. Its general effects generate humanitarian
and altruistic endeavors in the positive side, but its negative side
generates fanaticism with rather riotous and eccentric activity, disorder
and inexplicibly sudden changes of fortune. Its revolutions of 84 years
peculiarly align with American history.

The vast researches in history during the past two decades have
clarified many heretofore difficult points. Until recently history was
viewed principally as a numerical co-ordination of events with the
calendar. Now we have come to realize that cycles of history operate
in much the same manner as cycles of business, each cycle being an
epoch. Many notable studies in the co-ordination and sweep of the
cycles of history have been presented in recent years, the ‘March of
Democracy” by James Trueslow Adams, and the “Outline of History”
by H. G. Wells being popular examples. The monumental work of
Spengler, in “The Decline of the West,” even goes a step farther by co-
ordinating centuries of human history into a huge connected skein, with
each era separated but inter-related with the next.

Few historians, however, have taken any note of the cycles of ap-
proximately eighty-four years that have been so closely identified with
American life. Whether the newness of Western civilization on the
North American continent has prevented the taking of such a major
economic perspective of its history, or whether broad perspectives are
considered of little value is a debatable affair. At any rate, and in spite
of many important intervening events, there have been distinct eco-
nomic and social cycles of 84 years each. The manner in which these
cycles align with the cycles of Uranus has reached a point where it has

ceased to be coincidence. ;
If our historians are correct, Columbus landed on what is now known

THE URANUS CYCLE 13

as the West Indies group of islands in 1492. From 1492 to 1520 Spain
gave little attention to the new land except to establish settlements for
exploration and trading purposes in the West Indies. The main land was
practically ignored. Their search was primarily for gold and treasure,
and a new route between Europe and the Far East. Balboa crossed
Panama and reached the Pacific in 1513, while Ponce de Leon landed
in Florida in the same year. In 1520 Magellan found a strait near the
southern end of South America, which settled the question of the po-
sition of the America’s in relation to Europe and Asia. But it was in
the 1520’s before any settlement or colonization of the mainland was
attempted by white men.

In_1523 and 1524 Florida, the territory which now reaches from
Florida to Labrador, attracted the first serious attention of Spain. Late
in 1523 the first formal grant of conquest and settlement was issued.
The first settlement was launched under d’Ayllon, not far from the same
spot on which Jamestown was later founded.

Astronomical calculations indicate that the planet Uranus crossed
the 8th and 9th degrees of the zodiacal sign Gemini in the year 152
coinciding with the first settlement of the land which-row comprises

part of the United States.

In the 84 years between 1523 and 1607, when Uranus again returned —
to the 8th and 9th degrees of Gemini, many changes occurred e
North American Continent, but in the Tight WP Histo he pod ne a
distinct epoch in itself.

Just after the beginning of the 17th century a troublesome depression
gripped Europe. Thousands were without employment or even a place
to live. The proposal to colonize America met with great favor. Eliza-
beth was dead. The Stuarts were in the ascendancy and Europe was
launching a period of fateful constitutional changes which was sinister
and chaotic.

So it was in the latter part of April, 1607, the first English settlement
was made in America at Jamestown, Virginia. Notwithstanding the
shortcomings of the settlers, their tremendous difficulties and their im-
practicality in adjusting themselves to a new land, there is no mistaking
that this settlement and year was the beginning of the 2nd epoch in
American economic history. It also began a new Uranus cycle.

In_1691 Uranus had again traveled through its 84 year orbit, return-
ing“again to the 8th and 9th degrees of Gemini. Since 1607 the New
England colonies had developed. Maryland eee ores oo, organiza-
tion had entered Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Carolina. But en
the 1690’s began civil war and revolution embroiled England, laying
the seeds of political and religious dissension in the American colonies.
Conditions became so intense in the colonies by 1691 that a general
upheaval ensued, which Woodrow Wilson, in his five volume “History of
the American people,” calls “The Revolution.” This deluge ended the
2nd epoch of American economic life which began with the founding of
Jamestown in 1607. The 1690's saw the fall and burning of Jamestown,
the fall of Plymouth, Massachusetts and Maryland, and the institution

--- PAGE 12 of 77 ---

[OCR] 14 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

of new political currents and economic ideas, coinciding with the begin-
ning of another new cycle of Uranus.

In 1775, 84 years after 1691, Uranus again returned to the 8th and
oth_degrees_of Gemini. In_the interim the seeds of American inde-
pendence had been sown and on May 20th, 1775, a Declaration of
Independence was issued from the Mecklenburg, Virginia Convention.
But the new era of independence did not formally begin until Uranus
reached 8 degrees 51 minutes of Gemini at 20 minutes past noon on
July 4th, 1776 in Philadelphia: when the final Declaration of Inde-
pendence was signed. Indubitably coinciding with the new cyele of
Uranus, the fourth epoch in American economic life began.

Late in 1859, 84 years after the Declaration of Independence, Uranus
had again returned to the 8th and 9th degrees of Gemini In the interim
a New union of states devéloped and multiplied, but, Violent dissension
had been gaining ground on several major questions ever since the
1820’s. By 1850 close to an armed division of affairs developed, which
became an actuality in Civil War in 1861. On December 20th, 1860,
South Carolina seceded from the union. The planet Uranus was in 9
degrees 17 minutes of Gemini on that day.

On February 4th, 1861 the provisional constitution of the Confederacy
was framed at Montgomery, Alabama. Uranus was retrograding in 8
degrees 6 minutes of Gemini at the moment. The first armed conflict of
the war took place in early April 1861 at Fort Sumter. Uranus was then
in 9 degrees 4 minutes of Gemini.

A reference has already been made to the conjunctions of Jupiter
and Saturn beginning to appear in earth signs, after 1840, at approxi-
mately 20 year intervals. The conjunction following the presidential
election of 1860 occurred on October 21st, 1861 in 18 degrees 22
minutes of Virgo, although between September and November 1861 it
was very near a constant conjunction.

At the time of this conjunction period of 1861 the state of federal
credit became serious. Tax receipts from the Southern states were no
longer sources of income, while the expense of the war was more than
the Treasury could stand. In July 1861 only 25 cents of each dollar
spent in government came from taxes. The balance was borrowed.
Following an appeal to the banks for $150 millions in August the
Treasury could not pay creditors in coin and the country went on a
paper basis. Between that time and 1863 close to a half billion in
greenbacks was issued while gold went to huge premiums. The problem
became intensely difficult through the sudden death of Lincoln, when
Reconstruction plans and the efforts toward credit stabilization were
unexpectedly transferred to Vice President Johnson, a Democrat in
what had been a Republican Administration. So without any doubt
the crossing of the 8th and 9th degrees of Gemini by Uranus again co-
incided with the end of one epoch and the beginning of a new fifth
epoch in American economic history; intensified by the appearance of
the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in Virgo.

From 1859-1860 to 1943-1944, when Uranus will again traverse__

THE URANUS CYCLE 15

ance saath deatees of Gemini is 84 years. Intensifying circum-
Se fae ae wl be Saturn in Gemini between May 9th, 1942
and June 20th, 1944, following a conjunction of Saturn and Uranus in
29 degrees of Taurus on May 3rd, 1942, and a conjunction of Jupiter
and Saturn in Taurus (an earth sign) in the early part of February

1941, It is unqualifiedly the most momentous Period so far encountered
in American history.

--- PAGE 13 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER SIX

SOME CONCLUSIONS

Any recapitulation of the observations in the foregoing material must
first take cognizance of the fact that these cycles are not compelling. If
appointed leadership could and would take stock of these phenomena
any long range observations could be couched in a pre-adjustment to the
reverberations. On the other hand, the very complexities of the head-
long welter of public opinion and political expediency seems to bear
down as an irremovable force or process of evolution. Preventive pre-
scriptions have no place here, however.

Those practiced in the habit of waiting to see debatable economic
effects may conclude that all this data is a unique chain of coincidences
which have no bearing on the future. But let us maintain a distinction
between that which consists of economic effect and that which may be
cause.

The first conclusion is that the period between the World War and
the late 1950’s marks a cyclical transition from the Pisceai e of t)
last 2000 years into the Aquarian Age of the next 2000 years, ‘The dead
center of the transition computes as the decade o © 1950.

Second, the fifth 84 year cycle in American economic life will end
in 1943 and a new 84 year cycle begin in 1944, a transition heretofore
accompanied by tremendous and chaotic circumstances.

Third, a Sun-spot maximum is expected in 1938, and a minimum in
1943 and 1944, which is one contribution to the anticipation that busi-
ness indices will attain a high in 1938 and a low in 1943 and 1944.

Fourth, a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn again occurs in an earth
sign, this time in 1941, following the election of 1940, suggesting the
possibility of a repetition of an unexpected collapse of executive power
by 1945.

Fifth, a phenomena of the Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions in earth signs
is the manner in which they have timed a new interest in problems of
banking, credit and the expansion of credit. When accompanied by
Uranian influences, as occurred following 1860, necessitous inflationary
expedients developed. Between 1940 and 1945 the combined influences
are far more potent than at any time in American history, including the
Civil War period. The conclusion is that the aftermath of the credit
expansion of the late 1930’s will form the beginning of money problems
timed for the early 1940’s; but, that necessitous and actual inflation
will not be probable before 1941 begins. The mass psychology that dis-
counts inflation is of an entirely different order than the fear ridden
psychology which accompanies actual inflation. There is a vast differ-
ence between actual inflation and credit expansion. The late 1930’s
appear to mark credit expansion, while the early 1940’s point to a
necessitous inflationary interval.

The general conclusion is that the business indices will reflect a

SOME CONCLUSIONS 17

general upward trend from the lows of 1932 to a high late in 1938. A
recession is then expected to begin, with the “normal” downward trend
into 1943 and 1944, violently, but only temporarily, interrupted in the
inflationary period of 1941 and 1942. After 1943 and 1944 the founda-
tion for major readjustments actually start, so that by 1950 and 1951
another, and greater, epoch in American economic life begins; coinciding
with a new 84 year Uranus cycle, plus the 2000 year and long awaited
Aquarian Age.

ADDENDA 1978: World War II fades into history but its deep
effects have become more and more ominous to the traditions of Ameri-
can life. Standards of value, reduced deficit inflation, traditional moral-
ity and confidence in the future have been in erosion. The convenience
and miracle of debt credit under the pressures of war seems to have
gripped the populace to get a share and elect those who promise it.
Inflation is turning from the glow of prosperity to the ogre of deep-
seated inflation. This heritage of the 1940’s includes the national shift
from the concept of independence to that of internationalism which was
given birth in the form of the United Nations. After 1950-1951 the
promised new epoch did begin even though viewed askance now.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Chapters 2 & 3
“Principles of Radio Communication” by Morecroft.
“Below Ten Meters” by James Millen and R. S. Kruse.
“Electronics” issue of April 1932.
plies) Place in the Cosmos” by Hiram Percy Maxim. Appleton 1933.
‘Astronomy” by John Charles Duncan, Ph.D. Harpers 1930.
“The Universe Around Us” by James Jeans. MacMillan 1929.
“Earth, Radio and Stars” by Harlan T. Stetson. McGraw-Hill 1934.

“Astro-Economic Research” by L. J. Jensen. Astrological Bulletina Issues
198 & 199.

Chapter 4
“Astrological Key Words” by Manly P. Hall. David McKay 1931.
“New Dictionary of Astrology” by Sepharial. David McKay 1928.
“Lilly’s Astrology” by William Lilly. G. Bell and Sons Ltd London 1919.

Chapter 5
aed se American People” by Woodrow Wilson. Five vols. Harpers
“Florida—Old and New” by Dau. Putnam’s 1934.
“Romantic and Historic Florida” by A. Hyatt Verrill. Dodd, Mead 1935.
“Roger Williams” by James E. Ernst. MacMillan 1932.

“A Century of Banking Progress” by Wm. O. Scroggs, Ph.D. Doubleday,
Page 1924. ,

--- PAGE 14 of 77 ---

[OCR] Section II

ASTRO-ECONOMIC

INTERPRETATION

A MUNDANE ASTROLOGY NOTEBOOK
FUNDAMENTALS OF ECONOMIC FORECASTING

Copyright 1938 by L. J. Jensen
All Rights Reserved
(NOTE: Chapters 1 to 8 inclusive; material to follow is all new for this edition.)

--- PAGE 15 of 77 ---

[OCR] FOREWORD

The scientific world has come far since that day when the French
Academy of Science examined Edison’s first phonograph and pronounced
it a clever hoax and product of ventriloquism. But as great as the me-
chanical and electrical advances have been, it is only recently that more
than desultory attention has been paid to astrological premises. The
average individual fears that which he does not understand. The air of
mystery surrounding astrology simply accentuates this intellectual fear.
The normal “protective” reaction is then derision, and sometimes, casti-
gation. Until recently this “protective” derision toward astro-science
tenets has persisted with almost fanatical zeal. Now, however—for with
knowledge develops understanding—serious consideration involves the
subject.

The enormous findings and progress in radio and electronics, aero-
dynamics, weather cycles, et cetera, during recent years, has aroused a
new interest in the related astrological premises which have been the
common knowledge of researchers since the days of the Chaldeans and
Egyptians. It is part of our rapidly moving epoch that much of this
ancient material be correlated and clarified so that the modern layman
can both approach and understand the field.

This manual makes no pretense of being either an encyclopedia, a
complete compendium, or even an introductory dictionary of astrologi-
cal tenets and practice. Such a work would include a great deal of the
philosophical and scientific works of history, plus dozens of volumes of
observation in astrological material. This work is, however, the out-
growth of a need for a ready reference book which would afford the
salient working or everyday basis for interpreting Cosmic forces from
ephemerides. It is the result of innumerable methods of procedure that
were carefully tested in over fifteen years of observation and study.
Several methods not included herein, though quite widely used, must be
rejected for both unscientific and practical test reasons. However, fifteen
years of intensive research is far too short a time in which to formulate
even one dogmatic postulate on the invalidity of any method in this
gigantic field of observation. We are barely on the threshold of astrologi-
cal application to economic, political, social and individual maladjust-
ments with natural laws and forces. The material herein is therefore a
foundation for practical procedure.

Although general economics long since applied detailed observational
concentration to mass psychology, nationalities, and group movements;
and then formulated individual reactions through group stimuli, environ-
mental contacts, and heredity, to the potentialities and possibilities of
one person, astrology has blandly given little attention to anything but
the individual. This cart before the horse procedure has obviously re-
tarded any general understanding of the subject, and, at the same time,

--- PAGE 16 of 77 ---

[OCR] 22 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

prevented an intensive and organized research into its principles. When
a business organization prepares to open a new territory they carefully
survey the new field for not only the possible demand for their goods,
but whether large numbers of the population are sufficiently prosperous
to buy. If the territory is generally prosperous then the average in-
habitant is prosperous.

The detailed attention to natal astrology, or the analysis of the indi-
vidual, has tended researchers to overlook the extreme importance in a
geographical location and its astrological portents. It is banal to suggest
a field for electrical refrigerators north of the Arctic Circle, yet it is
almost as trivial to insist that the individual is not governed by the group
and location where he lives. Therefore Mundane or National Astro-
Analysis is the first and most important part of astrological interpreta-
tion. Without it distinct progress in natal astrology would continue to
remain scientifically fragmentary.

In spite of the importance of the mundane field there are only a hand-
ful of three or four published works on the subject, although the ma-
terials on personal genitures run into hundreds of volumes. This is
probably a normal sequence to every individuals’ love of self being first
in his or her thinking. Each person is interested in his tendencies, his
destiny, his opportunities, and his chances for finding mental co-ordina-
tion and happiness. Yet in these days when the world is attempting to
cast off the remnants of a Stone Age individualism in preparation for
the New Age of co-operation, it is realized that the Not-Self—the cir-
cumstances around us—is of greater importance than the Self—our own
personal ego. So it is that the mundane field of astrology is both the
key to national events and individual attainment.

This brief brochure attempts to present thoroughly tested and practi-
cal methods of procedure correlated into as simplified formulae as the
present state of the art permits. No new theories or startling departures
from recognized fundamentals are suggested, even though many of the
currently popular theories have been tested and so far found wanting
in results. The layman whose astrological experience has been confined
to a few Sun-Sign readings and a perusal of a few magazines is invited
to carefuly study the recent brochure, “Major Trends in American Eco-
nomics,” in order to grasp the fundamentals involved in interpretive
work.

I am gratefully indebted to a vast number of authors and corre-
spondents throughout the world in aligning the procedure herein. The
interchange and sifting of the multitude of ideas and premises received
through these contacts has been of inestimable value. Probably the
only original feature of the entire work lies in the correlation of the
methods of procedure. Credit could well be given to a list of researchers
and authors too numerous to append. However, I am particularly grate-
ful to Mr. George J. McCormack, not only as a fellow researcher in the
American Academy of Astrologians, and the voluminous mass of data
we have discussed in the last several years, but for a part of the radix
figure material which forms such a vital part of the data included herein.

FOREWORD 23

It is mildly probable that this material may come to the attention of
others than researchers quite conversant with astrological procedure,
practice and fundamentals. To these, it should be reminded, that astro-
logical interpretation is an art rather than an exact science. It deals
with the entire pattern of human life, from world economics and religion
to every detail of individual life. Expect far more from the subject than
has yet been attained by the combined efforts of governments, politics,
industry and finance in heavily subsidized natural phenomena research,
but don’t expect the impossible. Medical science is still fifty per cent
guess work, the administration of governments continues to be princi-
pally dependent on political emotion, while orthodox economics has
made slight progress in coping with the maladjustments of human life.
Astro-science has a far better record to offer, in spite of the situation
that research into its scientific postulates is yet in its infancy, but allow
for some interpretive error.

Kansas City, NovEMBER 1935 L. J. JENSEN

--- PAGE 17 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER ONE

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS

Tradition teaches that the signs of the zodiac, the symbols of planets
and the earthly influences of both, were a heavenly revelation to man
from the dark ages of the past. Since the time of the Chaldeans the
fundamental traditions of astrological practice have persisted unchanged.
However, since the tremendous strides in astronomy, electrical appli-
cations, and aeronautics, in the last half a century, a new depth of
understanding has become applied to the ancient premises of stellar
science. Accordingly, a new foundation for mundane astrology interpre-
tation is developing.

Mundane astrology is the study of cosmic forces in relation to the
activity, events and circumstances of countries, cities and groups of
people. It is astrological economics; or, astro-economics, for purposes
of brevity.

The maior_problem in_astro-economics has_been the tion of
zodiacal ane planetary tlerships so as to co-ordinate the positi
Specific latitude and longitude on the earth’s
surtacs—-A-trumber of earnest researchers have developed several meth-
ods Of co-ordination, but a complete simplified synthesis has never been
offered. The work of Johndro in “The Earth in the Heavens,” Counsil
in the “Cyclic Locality Dial” and “K Marks My Place,” and Sepharial in
the “Theory of Geodectic Equivalents” bear both the necessity for care-
ful examination and profound respect. The thesis developed does much
to clarify the entire problem.

However, the problem does not end with sign rulerships. It includes a
difficulty with the two-sign rulerships of Mercury, Venus and Mars that
are one of the problems handed down from antiquity. These two ele-
ments of the rulership problem have probably been the greatest deter-
rents to astro-economic interpretation progress.

The people of the present civilization appear to be members of a Fifth
Race that have inhabited the earth. The divisions of the Zodiac as
viewed by this Race locates the sign Leo in the fifth segment of the
Zodiac. Leo, the fifth sign, is ruled by the Sun. And the Sun is the
center of the planetary system of which the earth is a part. The other
planets are attributed to govern, or rule, the signs following the sign
Leo in the order of their distance from the Sun, viz, Mercury rules Virgo,
Venus Libra, Mars Scorpio, Jupiter_Sagittarius, Saturn Capricorn,
Uranus Aquarius, and Neptune Pisces.
~~ Untul recently the rulerships ended there, although the Moon has
always been attributed to Cancer in modern times, while Aries suggested
Mars, Venus Taurus, and Gemini Mercury. However, in my own prac-
tice there have been repeated circumstances which indicated that more
than Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon involved Aries, Taurus,
Gemini and Cancer.

In 1930 the planet called Pluto was located. Its revolution around the

--- PAGE 18 of 77 ---

[OCR] 26 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of
the sign Aries. Then during the course of time three more planets, to
assume rulerships of Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As
Pluto has two times the revolution of Neptune and Neptune is about
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will
probably have a revolution period of about 660 years, and so on. When
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership of the Moon will then
revert to Pars Fortuna.

In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions,
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves of the principal
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in-
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler of Aries, Venus
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler of Taurus, and so
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section.

But the problem of aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a
multitude of attempts have been published on the subject, some involv-
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others
simply philosophical conjecture. All of them have a basis in fact, de-
pending on a particular approach, yet none of them have worked con-
sistently for me. After a great deal of effort, however, the problem
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis-
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is
amply explained by Alan Leo in his “Casting the Horoscope” although
he seems to miss the application.

In the 1917 Yearbook of the American Academy of Astrologians
Florence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the
Equator and placed 0° of Taurus at the longitude of the Pyramid of
Gizeh. The signs of the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular
order. The Pyramid is located at 31° 0714’ East Longitude. Voluminous
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some of these items are available
in “A Miracle in Stone” by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents
only a small part of the material. The signs are located as follows:

0° Aries - 1°07 14’ EAST Long.0° Libra - 178°52 14’WEST

O° Taurus 31°07’ “ “  0°Scorpio 148°5214’ “
0° Gemini 61°071%4’ “ “0° Sagittarius 118°52 14’ “
O° Cancer 91°07’ “ “0° Capricorn 88°52%2’ “
0° Leo 121°07%’ “ “0° Aquarius 58°52’ “
O° Virgo 151°071%4’ “ “0° Pisces 28°521’

From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 27

belt formed by the earth’s orbit around the Sun. It has none of the ir-
regularity of the constellations and it is the actual zodiac of geocentric
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac of the Constellations;
when we are thinking in terms of the Universe in relation to the preces-
sion of the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown
period left 0° of Aries and now lies somewhere between 28° of Aries and
8° to 10° of Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as
it was several thousands of years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0°
Aries of the Zodiac of the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of
the planets geocentrically instead of heliocentrically. The actual zodiac
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al-
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership
as it always has had; but, when we go outside of our solar system to com-
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac of the Constellations which
is a matter of precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler-
ships mundanly.

During a period of ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing
and recrossing forty-six states of the United States and four Canadian
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made of the probable
ruling degrees of cities and towns. Every type of constellation co-
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina-
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion of Miss Bar-
nett’s was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144,
or 12 times 12, each of the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub-
divisions of 214°, and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca-
tion the first 214° sub-division of each sign be allotted to Taurus instead
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay
in a rather distant occult point.

In some of the_Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some of the esoteric phases of the
Dwadasamsas-or 2Y2° divisions of the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis-
piece of Alan Leo’s “Esoteric Astrology” for this chart). According to
this method of sub-division,and there are many occult and scientific
Teasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas of each sign is held by the same
sign; the first sub-division of Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision of
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major
Zodiacal divisions of the world and the other the major and sub-divisions
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that
this co-ordination works; always.

To compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location
add 1° 714’ to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign).
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30°. The first gives the
number of signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and
the second is the degree of rulership on the M. C. of the location. In the
Table of Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

--- PAGE 19 of 77 ---

[OCR] 26 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of
the sign Aries. Then during the course of time three more planets, to
assume rulerships of Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As
Pluto has two times the revolution of Neptune and Neptune is about
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will
probably have a revolution period of about 660 years, and so on. When
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership of the Moon will then
revert to Pars Fortuna.

In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions,
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves of the principal
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in-
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler of Aries, Venus
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler of Taurus, and so
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section.

But the problem of aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a
multitude of attempts have been published on the subject, some involv-
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others
simply philosophical conjecture. All of them have a basis in fact, de-
pending on a particular approach, yet none of them have worked con-
sistently for me. After a great deal of effort, however, the problem
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis-
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is
amply explained by Alan Leo in his “Casting the Horoscope” although
he seems to miss the application.

In the 1917 Yearbook of the American Academy of Astrologians
Florence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the
Equator and placed 0° of Taurus at the longitude of the Pyramid of
Gizeh. The signs of the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular
order. The Pyramid is located at 31° 0714’ East Longitude. Voluminous
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some of these items are available
in “A Miracle in Stone” by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents
only a small part of the material. The signs are located as follows:

0° Aries - 1°07 14’ EAST Long.0° Libra - 178°52 ¥%2’WEST

0° Taurus 31°07’ “ “  0°Scorpio 148°52%’ “
0° Gemini 61°07 14’ “ “0° Sagittarius 118°52 14’ “
O° Cancer 91°071%4’ “ “ 0° Capricorn 88°5214' “
0° Leo 121°07%’ “ “0° Aquarius 58°52’ “
O° Virgo 151°07%’ “ “0° Pisces 28°52’ «

From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 27

belt formed by the earth’s orbit around the Sun. It has none of the ir-
regularity of the constellations and it is the actual zodiac of geocentric
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac of the Constellations;
when we are thinking in terms of the Universe in relation to the preces-
sion of the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown
period left 0° of Aries and now lies somewhere between 28° of Aries and
8° to 10° of Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as
it was several thousands of years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0°
Aries of the Zodiac of the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of
the planets geocentrically instead of heliocentrically. The actual zodiac
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al-
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership
as it always has had; but, when we go outside of our solar system to com-
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac of the Constellations which
is a matter of precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler-
ships mundanly.

During a period of ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing
and recrossing forty-six states of the United States and four Canadian
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made of the probable
ruling degrees of cities and towns. Every type of constellation co-
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina-
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion of Miss Bar-
nett’s was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144,
or 12 times 12, each of the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub-
divisions of 242°, and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca-
tion the first 214° sub-division of each sign be allotted to Taurus instead
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay
in a rather distant occult point.

In some of the_Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some of the esoteric phases of the
Dwadasamsas, or 242° divisions of the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis-
Piece of Alan Leo's “Esoteric Astrology” for this chart). According to
this method of Sub-divistormand there are many occult and scientific
Teasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas of each sign is held by the same
sign; the first sub-division of Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision of
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major
zodiacal divisions of the world and the other the major and sub-divisions
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that
this co-ordination works; always.

To compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location
add 1° 714’ to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign).
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30°. The first gives the
number of signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and
the second is the degree of rulership on the M. C. of the location. In the
Table of Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

--- PAGE 20 of 77 ---

[OCR] 28 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION
Kansas City, Mo. — West Longitude 94° 30’
ADD 1° 74’
95° 2714’

Dividing by 30°gives 3 signs 5° 3714

Subtracting the result from 30° gives 24° 321’

So, the zodiacal position of the M. C. is Sagittarius 24° 321%’
The Latitude is 39° North. In the Table of Houses 24° Sagittarius on
the M. C. is 19° 4’ Pisces on the Ascendant.

To compute the sub-division rulership; each sub-division is 212° so
24° is in the 10th Dwadasamsas, which, under Sagittarius is Virgo. The
beginning of this 10th Dwadasamsas is 712° from 0° Capricorn at 88°
5244’ West Longitude at 96° 2214’ West. Kansas City is 24° 321%’
Sagittarius (94° 30’ West); a difference of 11214’. As one thirtieth of
21° is 5’ then 11214’ computes to 22 degrees of Virgo which is the sub-
division MC bringing an ascendant of 6° 06’ of Sagittarius at 39 North
Latitude. By using your slide rule the computations are greatly simpli-
fied.

A few of the major division degrees are as follows:

Outline Map

Boston 18° Capricorn onM.C. 4° Taurus on Asc.
New York 15°Capricorn “ “ 28° Aries “o«
Washington 12°Capricorn “ “ 22° Aries “os
Chicago 2°Capricorn “ “ 4° Aries “o«
Los Angeles 1° Sagittarius “ “ 15° Aquarius“ “

--- PAGE 21 of 77 ---

[OCR] CAPRICORN

SAG/TTARIUS

SCORPIO

Outline Map

UNITED STATES:

CHAPTER .JWO

PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS

One of the most difficult problems in astrological practice is the
method to use in projecting or “progressing” a radix or birth chart in
order to analyze the probabilities of the future. The controversies on this
point are very heated, and tend to diffuse most of the fundamentals in-
volved. The many facets of the question have no place in a note-book
manual of this sort, but I have found that every method in general use
has some basis of merit. On the other hand, a small degree of merit is
unsatisfactory excuse for using methods which do not stand up con-
sistently. In mundane interpretation results are of paramount impor-
tance.

The popular methods of “primary” and “secondary” directions have
never held up for me. In other words, they work beautifully one time
and fail utterly at another. Mentally leaping the gap by presuming
transit “touch-offs” or changes in geographical location never explained
the problem. The obvious answer should be that planetary positions on
the tenth or twentieth days after the beginning or birth cannot have any
effect on the corresponding years of life. It is physically impossible to
raise a blister in the twentieth year because of a burn received on the
twentieth day. Yet, like the progressive motion of the precession of the
equinoxes, and the entire Solar system, there is an analogy between a day
and a year in interpretive science. It is the occult, the fatalistic, and also
probably the expression of the microcosmic within the macrocosmic. The
diurnal cycle is related to the annual cycle in the same manner as the
spiritual is related to the physical. One day does relate to one year. But,
and this seems to be the point, the diurnal and annual (apparent) revo-
lutions of the Sun are the units of measure; not the zodiacal measures of
Mercury, or Mars, or Venus, et cetera. The zodiacal position of Mercury
twenty days after birth is effective twenty days after birth but never
affects the twentieth year of life. Yet the diurnal, or Sun, measure for the
twentieth day of life affects the twentieth year as spiritual, or fatalistic,
indicator of the destiny.

The Sun in its diurnal revolution then becomes the basis of progres-
sion in locating the destiny of the radix subject. It is the key which re-
veals why everyone, in a true sense, is neither “captain of his soul or
master of his fate.” It reveals the Radix subject’s relation to inscrutable
and imponderable spiritual law.

Sepharial in “The Science of Foreknowledge,” Alec Stuart in “The Se-
cret of the Meridian” and particularly Vivian E. Robson in “The Radix
System” apply this premise in a most practical and workable manner.
When the diurnal measure of the Sun (about 59’ 8”) is applied in each
progressed year to every planet in the radix the unit of the solar measure-
ment fulfills the entire analogy of the basic premise involved. The point
is that it works out most satisfactorily in practice, without the gaps of the
“primary” and “secondary” methods.

--- PAGE 22 of 77 ---

[OCR] 32 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

ADDENDA 1977: Since the foregoing, written in 1936, the radix
system concept has been widely researched in Europe and brilliantly
presented in several books by REINHOLD EBERTIN of Aalen, West
Germany Significant are “Combination of Stellar Influences,” “Tables
of Events,” “Transits,” etc.

For precise work, and where the ephemeris of the radix year is avail-
able, the procedure is to take the position of the Sun at the day of the
Radix in the ephemeris. Count forward as many days as years are to be
progressed and compute exactly how many degrees, minutes and seconds
the Sun moved. Add this amount to the longitude of every planet in the
Radix and also to all cusp positions. “Secondary” directions occur when
the Moon’s total travel is added to the position of the Moon in the Radix.

When the ephemeris of the year of the Radix is not available use the
average daily rate of the Sun’s travel—59’ 8” for each year; and the
average daily travel of the Moon—13° 10’ 35”, for the “secondary” di-
rections. The condensed table of measure will be found in the note sec-
tion. This method is valuable in estimating the “fate” or long term out-
look from corporation, national and other mundane figures. The portents
do not involve specific happenings however. Always keep in mind that
they simply time the indications or materialization of the indications of
the Radix.

For practical and detailed interpretation and forecasts of specific
tendencies and events an application of the annual revolution of the Sun
seems consistently accurate. The basis is the annual return of the Sun to
the same position it occupies in the Radix. A chart set for this moment
indicates the events of the year to follow, and diurnal figures based on
this Solar Return times those events and indicates by daily and actual
planetary positions in operation the motivation and specific timing of all
events.

The method is to erect a chart for the moment of the Sun’s return to
the position it occupied in the Radix. Then the Sidereal Time of this
chart is a base for each diurnal chart of the year. For practical purposes
one minute (1’) of Sidereal Time is added to the Radix Sidereal Time
for each day after the day of the Solar Return, and the ephemeris posi-
tions of the planets are the diurnal day in question are entered in their
proper places. For example:

Compute the Sun’s exact position in the Radix. Then erect a figure for
the nearest previous Solar Return to that place. It will be necessary to
compute the time of the Return to minutes and seconds in Greenwich
Mean Time. Then transpose this G. M. T. to True Local Time by sub-
tracting four minutes for each degree of WEST Longitude, or ADDING
four minutes for each degree of EAST Longitude. Then calculate the
Sidereal Time of the Solar Return at the geographical location in ques-
tion, which may not be the Radix location. This Sidereal Time is the
base for the diurnal figures of the year, by simply adding one minute for
each day to the Solar Return S. T. For illustration, say the Sidereal
Time of the Solar Return figure is 12-24-31, September 1st. We want
the diurnal for November 1st. To the Sidereal Time of the September

PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS 33

1st chart add one minute (1’) for each day, (30 days from September
1st to October 1st; 31 days from October 1st to November 1st) or 61’.

12 24 31S. T. Solar Return (Sept. 1st)
61 _ Increase :
13° 25 31S. T. of Diurnal (Nov. 1st)
Enter the house cusps according to the proper latitude and the planets

positions from the ephemeris for November 1st. The Radix and pro-
gressed Radix positions are added in their proper sign positions.

The thenry-involving this method is that although the sideresl_year_
and the tropical year only diff. the amount Of the precession of the
equinox (about 50.2), the sidereal year is : mean solar days

t t idéreal time difference of about six hours, or one quarter

day, between two Solar Returns. Our calendar handles this by comput-

ing one year as 365 days and every fourth year adding a day. To illus-
trate: Use the Sun’s return at 0° Aries in a geocentric ephemeris.

Solar Return Greenwich Time
March 21st, 1929 2:35AM.
March 21st, 1930 8:30 A.M.
March 21st, 1931 2:06 P.M.
March 20th, 1932 7:54 P.M. (Leap Year)
March 21st, 1933 1:43 A.M.
March 21st, 1934 7:28 AM.
March 21st, 1935 1:18 P.M.
March 20th, 1936 6:58 P.M. (Leap Year)

Twenty four hours of mean solar time are equal to 24 hours, 3 min-
utes, and 56.5554 seconds of sidereal time. This, however, at the rate of
gain of 3 minutes, 5612 minutes a day approximates an entire day each
year and so prevents any upset to our premise.

For strictly precise work in the diurnal charts it would have to be
recognized that the orbital speed of the Earth around the Sun is not uni-
form, but varies in accordance with Kepler’s principle of the Law of
Areas. There is an equation of time in the difference between mean and
apparent solar, or Sun, time. This reaches as great a maximum value as
PLUS 14 minutes 28 seconds on February 11th, and as much as MINUS
16 minutes 21 seconds on November 3rd. Therefore the Sidereal Time
difference between two Solar Returns, computed at 0° of Aries, will be
between five and one half and six hours;—not exactly one quarter day
each year. To compute the exact daily increment of Sidereal Time to be
added to diurnal charts it would be necessary to locate the daily orbital
speed of the Earth; or else, divide the total sidereal time differential,
between the two Solar Returns involved, by 365.25. But in interpreta-
tion we are not concerned with exact aspects, inasmuch as there is an orb
of influence in all planetary vibrations. This greatly simplifies matters as
for all general purposes we can simply add one minute (1’) for a day.

In interpretation of these diurnal charts, house rulerships, as outlined
in the note section, and cuspal points, should receive greatest attention.

--- PAGE 23 of 77 ---

[OCR] 34 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

A complete pattern of the actual cosmic stimuli, as it is applying at the
specific geographical location in question, is patterned on the chart.
Events cannot only be timed to the hour but often to the minute. When
used with the United States charts the coincidence with governmental
acts, news events, and important decisions is often astonishing. The ap-
plication is more fully discussed in the section on Synthesis.

ADDENDA 1978: readers of the foregoing material in the 1936
edition reproduced here complained of computation problems. Short-cut
or more simplified methods were requested. I admit the subsequent de-
mands of daily work forced faster although less precise mathematics,
with good quality results. See the chapter: An “Over’-Simplified
Method, etc.

CHAPTER THREE

SYNTHESIS—ESTIMATING
ECONOMIC TRENDS

In spite of the many mechanical problems involved in astro-science,
the greater difficulty concerns interpretation of the charts. The approach
toward precise interpretation can be taught, but the actual interpretation
must be learned. No one can teach the actual synthesis of all the po-
tentialities of a chart; it is a natural ability of co-ordination one either
possesses or is without. However, there are many salient factors which
anyone, with some application and study, can apply and use for practical
purposes. If these factors are applied properly the layman is able to at-
tain results quicker, while the practiced interpreter can achieve better
results.

Planets are in constant angular relationship to one another and to the
earth. Each angle is a different facet or blend of the vibratory forces
involved and results in a different psychological motivation than another
angle. Every degree of 360° has its specific nature. For practical pur-
poses, and in line with the rules involving angles graphically illustrated
and discussed in the companion brochure “Market Charts,” only a few
of the angles can be considered. These angles, or aspects, principally
used are the 30°, 60°, 90°, 120°, 150° and 180° on both sides of the
circle. Sometimes the angles of 45° and 135° are also valuable indi-
cators. None of these aspects are, in a true sense, unfavorable; but, as
some generate compression while others generate expansion, the tend-
ency is to term the compression aspects unfavorable and the expansion
aspects favorable. The 30°, 60°, and 120° are favorable; the 150° is
doubtful, and the remainder unfavorable.

In the synthesis of a chart the natures of the planets, the personality
of each sign, the meanings of the houses and a knowledge of the aspects
are all involved. The chart is like a jar of fluid arriving in the laboratory
for analysis. The chemist analyzes the fluid for its complete content.
The interpreter of a chart proceeds in the same manner, weighing each
part.

In estimating business and market trends my first procedure is to lo-
cate the primary, or major, swings of the indices involved. This appears
to be involved in the Great Mutation of 240 years portent. Set a Solar
Return figure based on this radix (see note section for chart) each year.
For the day to day indications use the diurnal method already discussed.
The radix and the diurnals are set for the capital of the country in ques-
tion.

Such a series of charts set over the last seventy five years show a coin-
cidence between the unfavorable aspects of major planets and economic
depression, and the favorable aspects with recovery and prosperity. In
this period the thirteen times Uranus and Saturn were in unfavorable
aspect coincides with thirteen periods of general economic decline. In

--- PAGE 24 of 77 ---

[OCR] 36 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

the nine times these planets were in favorable aspect decided gains in
business activity were registered seven times, and mild gains in two
times. Since 1896 Uranus and Jupiter have been in favorable aspect
twenty eight times. In every case these aspects coincided with gains in
business activity. The July 8th, 1932 depression low coincided with an
exact trine of these planets on July 9th, 1932—the day the upward

thrust began. A synthesis of the relationships by-aspect and sign posi-_
tions of Jupitér, urn_and Uran lus the Sun Spot Cycle is the
markets. ditional details are brought out in the companion brochure,

“Major Trends in American Economics.”

To discover how the national cycles of business, or the primary trends,
will effect a particular locality superimpose the Solar Return and diur-
nals on the house positions of the locality in question according to the
rulership procedure in Chapter One.

The intermediate, or secondary, trends within the primary trend be-
come more involved. The primary trend base is retained in mind as of
major importance; then a figure is set for the Vernal Equinox. This
figure holds rule for the year and the diurnals for each day to follow are
based on its Sidereal Time. However, the implications of the quarterly
Ingresses which follow take precedence over the particular quarter in-
volved.

The minor trends, seldom of more than a few days duration in the
same direction on the statistical charts of business activity and markets,
are the most difficult procedure of the three types of trends included. In
normal times, where supply and demand operates freely, a barrage or
string of favorable aspects will bring upward movements, and a string
of unfavorable aspects the reverse. But when periods of abnormality
occur, and the economic machinery is broken down, the rule of favorable
and unfavorable aspects does not hold on the minor trend because of one
or more major motivating forces which cuts off or neutralizes the tempo-
rary minor forces. Such situations develop regularly, such as the opposi-
tion aspect of Saturn to Neptune which was in force during 1935 and
will be more strongly in force in the first ten months of 1936. Lunation
figures reveal their influences.

The change from one sign to another by a planet coincides with
change in trend and general psychology, depending on the magnitude
and speed of the planet. Mercury changing signs is a powerful market
factor, for instance, in this connection.
time of the ; or Lunation, and the Fi oon, are critical
commodity points; and, if a commodity makes a high (or a low) on one
key day it will maintain its new trend until the next key day. Occasion-
ally key days develop simultaneously and thereby mark extremely criti-
cal points. Those days termed key days are when the Moon is in square
aspect to either Mercury, Mars or Venus. Another factor of importance,
particularly in commodity markets, are the planetary hours of each day.
Their use in hour to hour observations is of great value.

SYNTHESIS—ESTIMATING ECONOMIC TRENDS 37

For corporation events, and the probable activity of their securities,
use as a radix chart the mundane house positions described in Chapter
One; and the methods of Chapter Two set for the date of incorporation
and located at the place of the home office. If the exact data is known
set the diurnals according to the Sidereal Time of the exact Solar Re-
turn. If not, it is best to watch the interaction of the transits in connec-
tion with the incorporation radix set for the home office location and its
radix positions and progressions, according to mundane rulership cusps.

Some success can be attained by using the diurnals based on the Solar
Return of the New York Stock Exchange radix at the corporation home
office location and superimposing the corporation radix positions on the
diurnals. In the matter of markets, however, it must be stressed that
technical market factors, and particularly the statistical market charts,
are the yardsticks of market action. Motivating influences are reflected
by the planetary positions, but there must be a yardstick first.

The student of business trends quickly realizes that it is a fundamen-
tal law that supply and demand are never equal for any length of time.
All the man made economic planning ever conceived will never upset
that law. The problem of droughts, insects, scourges and rainfall can
never be completely controlled in growing commodities. An average of
many crops will about coordinate with basic demand, but to have every
crop at exactly the average is impossible. Yet shortages at one geo-
graphical location and surpluses at another can be detected by the inter-
weaving cycles which average out to the major cycle. These inter-
weaving cycles can be estimated for mundane rulerships (geographical
locations) by using major conjunctions as the radix or beginning point.
The rotational conjunctions are very useful also.

In the Jupiter-Saturn Rotational Radix (see chart section) the point
of wheat is found by subtracting the position of the Sun (at the conjunc-
tion moment) from the position of the conjunction and adding the
Ascendant. This is a radix point entered and used in much the same
manner as Pars Fortuna is used in a natal chart. In the 1901 figure for
London this point fell in the second house in conjunction with the Moon
at 12° 36’ Cancer and opposing the point of conjunction at 14° 0’ 18”
Capricorn. This figure included the period of the War, when wheat
shortages were intense. In the 1921 Conjunction (Jupiter-Saturn) at
London the point of wheat is in 10° 43’ Leo in conjunction with Neptune
and Venus. The point of barley is found by subtracting the place of the
Moon from the place of Jupiter and adding the ascendant; sugar by
subtracting Mercury from Venus and adding ascendant; rye by sub-
tracting Mercury from Saturn and adding ascendant; cotton by sub-
tracting Mercury from Mars and adding ascendant. These “points” are
to use for supplemental purposes, however, for though they work in a
unique manner the scientific basis for them is not clear. The basic idea
was suggested by Pallicus in an unpublished manuscript now in the
British Museum.

The cycles of each planet, viz, Mars, Venus, etc, are so well known as
significant co-ordinates with the cycles of various phases of economic

--- PAGE 25 of 77 ---

[OCR] 38 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

life that they need not be repeated here except to call attention to them.
The layman will find the seven lessons on Mundane Astrology, issued
by the Brotherhood of Light at Los Angeles, valuable in this connection.

In the problems involving aspects, orbs of influence, etc, the probable
moment of greatest intensity of an aspect is sometimes disconcerting. At
one time, particularly where mundane rulership figures are concerned
and in aspects to cusps and radix positions in diurnal figures, aspects
seem to be strongest when approaching than when exact or passing. At
other moments the reverse seems to occur. It is not the fault of the
computations in the ephemeris or the figure involved, but appears to be
caused by the mean obliquity of the Ecliptic. In 1936 this is 23° 26’
51”.40; the difference between the earth’s poles and the ecliptic’s poles.
This obviously throws every point of the zodiac measured at the Equa-
tor, except Aries and Libra degrees, off in declination from one to four
degrees. Depending on the declination depends whether the approach-
ing, the exact, or the passed aspect is most powerful. Such a situation
can delay a market turn, marked by an aspect of slow moving planets,
as much as several months; and in the case of an aspect of rapidly mov-
ing planets, several days (and of course, conversely, ahead of the ephem-
eral positions). This is particularly noticeable in 1935 when the im-
portant aspects involving Gemini, Cancer and Leo practically all were
strongest when approaching or ahead of time, while those involving
Sagittarius and Capricorn were behind time. This is a problem to in-
volve careful consideration by observers.

CHAPTER FOUR

THE HOUSES IN MUNDANE
AND CORPORATION CHARTS

FIRST HOUSE: General circumstances and temper of the people, their
general health and vitality and sense of optimism or pessimism.

CORPORATION: The place of the corporation in relation to the
public, its stockholders, and business objectives. (Note ruler of asc. and
aspects).

SECOND HOUSE: Government Treasury, banking and currency con-
ditions, business and trade activity, taxation and national income; all
matters of money.

CORPORATION: earnings and profit abilities.

THIRD HOUSE: Transportation and communications, including rails,
telephone and telegraph, commercial radio, demand for stocks and
bonds, trade volume, technical publications, financial and trade relations
with adjacent countries, short distance travel.

CORPORATION: Relations with competitors, transportation and
communications, some advertising, bookkeeping accounts, internal agree-
ments.

FOURTH HOUSE: Real property, mining, crops, public works and
buildings, weather, anti-administration faction in politics, exploration,
socialization.

CORPORATION: Tangible assets, direct competition, power of com-
petitors, hazards involving property.

FIFTH HOUSE: Amusements and entertainment, including theatres
and radio; phases of publishing, publicity and advertising; children and
places where women and children congregate; the emotional aspects of
mass psychology; domestic welfare of the nation; speculative activity
and conditions.

CORPORATION: Subsidiaries or branches, advertising success, in-
come from capital, the place of deposit of capital such as safes, vaults,
and banks, the motivating center.

SIXTH HOUSE: The state of public health, Army and Navy, condition
of the masses—particularly labor, net financial results of fifth house
affairs, foodstuffs, wearing apparel.

CORPORATION: Employees—including their character and health,
corporation connection with hostelries, agriculture and agricultural
products, working equipment, fixtures and furnishings.

SEVENTH HOUSE: International relations, including treaties; threats

--- PAGE 26 of 77 ---

[OCR] 40 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

of war and overtures of peace; foreign trade; marriage and divorce, in-
cluding civil suits opposed to popular opinion; opponents.

CORPORATION: Public accountings; adjustments; employee income
and payrolls; volume of sales; best method of sales appeal.

EIGHTH HOUSE: Foreign finance, including effects of foreign ex-
change; financial results of treaties; the cabinet of the government; op-
Position to trade balances; national budget; flow of money; taxation;
death rate.

CORPORATION: Credits; private conferences; all confidential in-
formation and trade secrets; the board of directors; net earnings.

NINTH HOUSE: The courts; legal, religious, philosophical and scien-
tific developments; foreign trade and shipping; long distance travel;
foreign news; insurance; resources of labor and the masses.

CORPORATION: Completion of contracts; litigation; audits; in-
surance; shipping; affiliations at a distance; inter-company correspond-
ence.

TENTH HOUSE: The president or ruler; mayor of a city; political
activity of the party in power; vested authority; business activity and
turnover; leaders.

CORPORATION: The corporation head, or administrative depart-
ment (note particularly the positions and aspects of the Sun); general
business conditions; relations with government and associations.

ELEVENTH HOUSE: The Senate; The House of Representatives;
financial results of government policies; money volume of business activ-
ity; legislation affecting business and government activity; government
obligations; utilities.

CORPORATION: Corporation friends; resources of the head of the
organization; political connections; constitutional policies; the good-will
and intangible assets; indebtedness in bonds, mortgages, etc; treasurer.

TWELFTH HOUSE: All limitations, secrets, and moral obligations of
government and business; the results of litigation; all public institutions
such as reformatories, jails, hospitals and asylums; all speculative fea-
tures involving eighth house affairs; all secret dealings involving the
country.

CORPORATION: Experimentation and research; trade secrets, for-
mulae and methods; limitations through secret enemies, including in-
efficiency; effects of litigation.

KEY-WORDS FOR INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS

Sun (©)—Government and administrators, authority, gold, specula-
tion, theatre as a business, etc.

HOUSES IN MUNDANE AND CORPORATION CHARTS 41

Moon ( ) )—Masses, crowds, crop harvests, popular ideas, sea, water.

Mercury ( % )—Media, trade, commerce, publishing, advertising, doc-
tors, printers, short travel.

Venus ( 2 )—architecture, art, fashion, music halls, recreation.

Mars ( 8 )—Army, Navy, surgeons, war, violence, epidemics, iron, steel,
explosives, machinery, munitions, tobacco, sports.

Jupiter (2! )—banking, brokers, courts, churches, favorable aspects
abundance, unfavorable extravagance.

Saturn Ce) favorable aspects: patience, unfavorable: loss, depression: _
labor and laboring places, the land as of farms, grain, mines, rea
estate, mountainous places, the aged.

Uranus ( 6 )—favorable aspects: change, unfavorable: disruptive; air-

“craft, electronics, railroads, tornadoes, strikes, radio energy, utilities,
political socialism. We\-

Neptune (&)—favorable aspects: creative, unfavorable: deception;
actors, beverages, hospitals, bogus business operations, narcotics and
drug companies, oil, photography, political idealism.

Pluto (P )—favorable aspects: cooperation, unfavorable: compulsion,
dictatorships, atomic energy, plutonium, sewers, rackets, crime.

(The foregoing are samples of a wide range of applications; experience

soon will suggest additions. )

ADDENDA 1978. Since publication of the foregoing in 1936 several new ephem-
erides have been developed and a wide exchange of books and magazines has taken
place. In this situation American, British and Oriental studies use slightly different
symbols from those most used in Continental Europe. For example, the Pluto symbol
in European style seems to be a distorted Venus symbol of the American British
form. Other sometimes disturbing differences appear in symbols for other planets.
In this text symbols now growing in general acceptance are used. Note the often
used symbol for Uranus, often mistaken for Neptune, is the European form. Unlike
the symbol for Mars there is a dot in the ring and the stem is a vertical arrow.

--- PAGE 27 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER FIVE

ECLIPSES

One of the most important factors in mundane interpretation is to
follow the effect of eclipses. Eclipses are most intense in their effects
where they are visible. Sepharial’s rule for finding the duration of the
effects of an eclipse is: find the distance of the eclipsed luminary at con-
junction or opposition from the Node. Then if 5° be divided by this
distance, the magnitude of the eclipse will be obtained. Then for dura-
tion—as 1 is to 60, so is the magnitude to the number of months the
eclipse will indicate. Thus:

Distance from Node Magnitude YearsDuration Months Duration

Y%4° 20.00 100 0
Ye 10.00 50 0
He 6.66 33 4
1° 5.00 25 0
14%° 4.00 20 0
144° 3.33 16 8
134° 2.857 14 3%
2 ° 2.50 12 0
244° 2.22 11 1
22° 2.00 10 0
24° 1.818 8 4
3° 1.67 7 8
3° 1.43 7 8
4° 1.25 6 3
5 ° 1.00 5 0
6 ° 833 4 1%
8 ° 625 3 1%
10 ° 5 2 6
15 ° 333 1 8

For interpretation of eclipses refer to “Eclipses in Theory and Prac-
tice” by Sepharial, and Raphael’s “Mundane Astrology.”

CHAPTER SIX

INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS
IN THE HOUSES AND SIGNS

When the student of astrology has mastered the mechanical phases of
interpretation and begins to estimate the many influences involved in
each chart many difficulties develop. A planet or house in one position
is effective in a manner different from another position. The text-books
contain tremendously voluminous tabulations of all the shades of mean-
ings in each position, but then probably every possible meaning has
never been in print. The whole problem of life and living is involved
in a chart. Either more years of experience than can be crowded into
one lifetime or a gargantuan memory would completely meet the prob-
lem. However, there is a simple way of getting into a chart, which does
not attempt to tax the memory, and at the same time holds to simple
first principles.

As discussed under Chapter One the Sun is attributed to rulership of
the sign Leo, the fifth mundane house. The Sun’s “personality” is colored
by the fifth house influence but when it is in a chart its action depends
on its sign position in relation to the sign Leo, with Leo as its first house.
In other words the Sun in Leo is the Sun operating in a first house
manner, but the Sun in Aquarius is the Sun operating in a seventh house
manner—Aquarius being the 7th house from Leo. Now, in a radix the
Sun may be in Leo in the 10th house. Then the Sun is operating in a
first house manner through, or giving expression to this first house man-
ner, the 10th house. In the same manner, Virgo is the first house of
Mercury (it rules Virgo); then Mercury in Capricorn would be the
Mercury nature or “personality” working in a fifth house manner, plus
some of the eleventh house because it is the lower octave ruler of
Gemini.

When the nature of each planet is learned, and the rulerships applied,
a mental “key-word” system soon develops which quickly tabulates in
the mind a large number of meanings to every planetary and sign posi-
tion. Then if the text-books giving the multitudes of meanings are used,
to build up a further understanding of specific meanings, progress can
be made. The sooner a student is able to get away from reference works
the better his ability of perception and interpretation becomes.

The basic texts for this are many. Alan Leo stressed this method of
approaching what he called “memory co-ordination” but text-books ap-
parently ignored the complete practicality of the point. However, re-
cently Sidney K. Bennett developed several texts on interpretation along
these lines which are of enormous interpretive value, to both the student
and the professional, and decidedly worth their published price to both
layman and student.

In mundane interpretation there is a great lack of reference material.

--- PAGE 28 of 77 ---

[OCR] 44 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

For general purposes Raphael’s “Mundane Astrology” and A. J. Pearce’s
“Textbook of Astrology” are most useful.

In connection with planetary positions by both sign and house, de-
tailed interpretation finds a tremendous source of help in taking cog-
nizance of the fixed stars. Authoritative texts on this phase of the field
are, The Fixed Stars and Constellations” by Vivian E, Robson, and
Johndro’s “Stars”; “FIXED STARS and their interpretation” by Ebertin-
Hoffman; English Edition published 1973 by Ebertin-Verlag.

CHAPTER SEVEN

CASTING MUNDANE CHARTS

Mathematical precision to the second is not necessary in setting a
geocentric chart of the heavens. Although there is no harm in comput-
ing every figure with the mathematical methods of an astronomical
observatory the time consumed is far better placed on interpretation. A
simple method of working is as follows. An ephemeris designed for
astrological work for the years to be considered, a Tables of Houses, and
blank chart forms are needed.

First, enter on the chart blank the house cusp degrees and signs.

This is done by converting the time data to standard time, if in day-
light saving time; then find how far the location is in degrees from the
nearest Standard Meridian Time Line. Add four minutes for each de-
gree the location is East of that meridian, but subtract four minutes for
each degree it is West (if West). The result is True Local Time.

In the ephemeris take the sidereal time for noon PREVIOUS to the
chart location time and ADD:

(1) Sidereal Time for noon previous in ephemeris

(2) 10 seconds correction for every 15 degrees longitude
(3) The interval between previous noon and chart time
(4) 10 seconds correction for each hour of this period

The result is the sidereal Time of the chart.

Under the proper latitude in the Tables of Houses find that sidereal
time which is closest to the sidereal time of the chart and from the
Tables enter the signs and degrees on the proper house cusps of the
chart.

Second, enter the planets in the houses of the chart.

Find Greenwich Mean Time by multiplying the degrees of longitude
by 4 and divide by 60’, and add to the True Local Time, if West Longi-
tude.

By logarithms, simple proportion, or preferably mathematical tables,
compute the distance of travel of each planet since the Greenwich
Time and zodiacal place shown in the ephemeris. Some ephemerides
show the places of the planets at noon and some show them at midnight
—make sure which.

Enter the computed positions in their proper places on the chart.

Third, compute the declinations and latitudes of each planet and
tabulate these positions.

Fourth, tabulate all the major aspects in a speculum, and from the
section of notes in this manual tabulate the natures and powers of each
planet.

(Note: diurnal figures are cast according to Chapter Two)

--- PAGE 29 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER EIGHT

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

The hundreds of volumes which have been consulted over a period of
many years, combined with tests and practice of the many methods
presented, has gradually evolved the material in this manual. The
pages which follow are the framework of a ready reference note-book
which is in daily use. The layman will find much of the data difficult to
apply, but if the text-books referred to in the foregoing chapters are
consulted the applications will be immediately made clear, for these

notes are of valuable assistance.

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

THE GREAT
MUTATION-1842
Jupiter-Saturn ¢
January 26th, 1842

0:197753"

2197753" A.M,
Washington, D.C.

Bears rule of econ-
omic conditions to

“54'42””

OS

NOTES

47

--- PAGE 30 of 77 ---

[OCR] 48 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

ROTA-
TIONAL CONJUNC-
TION JUPITER-SAT-
URN, September 9th,

192i—11:07 P.M

Washington, D.C.

Supplement figure
of Great Mutation

NOTES

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 49
16°50’
20°.2 ome

13° 308/27"

11°8’

CHART OF
THE DECLARATION
OF INDEPEN DENCE—
July 4th, 1776, Phila-
delphia, Pa. 0:20'P.M.

”
eer 08.3

x
19°8’

x
13°0’

16°50’
v3
55.8

NOTES

--- PAGE 31 of 77 ---

[OCR] 50

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

According to
Parker's Ephemeris

9

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

LIVERPOOL
GRAIN EXCHANGE

August 28th, 1201
(Old Style)

NOTES

51

--- PAGE 32 of 77 ---

[OCR] 52

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

April 25th,1694
(Old Style)

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

oe ST

BE~

CHICAGO
BOARD OF TRADE
CORPORATION FIGURE

NOTES

53

--- PAGE 33 of 77 ---

[OCR] 54

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

RADIX
UNITED STATES
STEEL CORPORATION

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

NOTES

55

--- PAGE 34 of 77 ---

[OCR] 56

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 57
THE PLANETS THE SIGNS
Sun—© Moon— ) Mercury—x% Aries—T Taurus—% Gemini—
Venus—@ Earth—® Mars—é Cancer—25 Leo—{. Virgo—mQ
Jupiter—2f Saturn— b Uranus— 6 Libra: Scorpio—n, Sagittarius—7*
Neptune— tl Pluto— BP Capricorn—V3 Aquarius—* Pisces—}€

PLANETARY AND SIGN NATURES

CARDINAL SIGNS—Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn
FIXED SIGNS—Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius
COMMON SIGNS—Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces

FIRE SIGNS—Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius
EARTH SIGNS—Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn
AIR SIGNS—Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius
WATER SIGNS—Canceer, Scorpio, and Pisces

POSITIVE SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and
Aquarius

NEGATIVE SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and
Pisces (Positive signs are masculine, negative are feminine)

BARREN SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, and Virgo
FRUITFUL SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Pisces
INDIFFERENT SIGNS—Libra, Capricorn, and Aquarius

PLANETARY
PLANETARY POWERS REVOLUTIONS
Detri- Exalta-

Planet Rules ment tion Fall Earth—365 days 7 hours
SUN— XN —-—- r “= Moon—28 Days around earth
VENUS. tor ad mr x TR Mercury—88 days
MERCURY— xm — #% — m — St Venus—224 days
MOON— Ss — Ww — 8 — M Mars—1 year 322 days
SATURN. 8 oo x Jupiter—11 years 322 days
JUPITER. mx a4 % V8 Saturri—29 years 167 days
MARS— r(m) — (8) — (V8) — (20) Uranus—84 years
URANUS. ae oF Tm S  Neptune—164 years 167 days
NEPTUNE— X* — m — 5 — Ww
PLUTO—. er —- += — 3 — &

DECANATE SIGN DIVISIONS

--- PAGE 35 of 77 ---

[OCR] 58 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

DECANATE PLANETARY RULERSHIPS

PLANETARY
CRITICAL DEGREES TIME PERIODS
(Planets or house cusps in these degrees have
intensified effects)

Moon—4 years
Mercury—10 years

Aries 1°, 13°, 26°. Libra 1°, 13°, 26°. Venus—8 years
Taurus 9°, 21°. Scorpio 9°, 21°. Sun—19 years
Gemini 4°, 17°. Sagittarius 4°, 17°. Mars—15 years
Cancer 1°, 13°, 26°. Capricorn 1°, 13°, 26°. Jupiter—12 years
Leo 9°, 21°. Aquarius 9°, 21°. Saturn—40 years
Virgo 4°, 17°. Pisces 4°, 17°. Uranus—90 years

Neptune—180 years

TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE
Add to the Longitude of the Moon the Longitude of the Ascendant
and subtract the longitude of the Sun from the total.

TO CALCULATE GREENWICH MEAN TIME
FOR ANY POINT WEST LONGITUDE . .
Add four minutes for each degree of longitude the location is WEST

of Greenwich to the true local time at the location.

TO CALCULATE TRUE LOCAL TIME

To the nearest Standard Meridian Time, ADD four minutes for each
degree the location is EAST of the Meridian corresponding to that
time. If the location is WEST of that Meridian, SUBTRACT four min-
utes for each degree it is WEST thereof.

TO CALCULATE THE ADJUSTED CALCULATION DATE
(for secondary directions)

(a) Compute the interval from G. M. T. to following noon

(b) To this interval add the Sidereal Time for G. M. T. noon on the
radix day—this equals the Sidereal Time of the Adj. Calcu. Date.

(c) If the G. M. T. falls in the a.m—count forward in the ephem-
eris.

(d) If the G. M. T. falls in the P.M.,, or in the A.M. of the next day,
count backwards.

TO ADJUST CUSPS FOR A POINT
REMOTE FROM THE RADIX LOCATION

To the Sidereal Time of the radix, if the direction be EAST, ADD—
if the direction be WEST, SUBTRACT—the difference in longitude,

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 59

reduced to hours and minutes. With this new Sidereal Time the house
cusps of the new location are taken from the Tables of Houses. The
planets are inserted in the same zodiacal signs, degrees and minutes as
in the radix chart. A new Part of Fortune position is calculated accord-
ing to the revised Ascendant.

TO PROGRESS A RADIX FIGURE WHEN AN EPHEMERIS
IS NOT AVAILABLE
(Note section on Progressions and Transits in this manual)

Years Are Months Are Days Are
1 0 59’ 08” 1 4’ 45" 1 0’ 10”
2 1 58’ 17” 2 9’ 51” 2 0’ 20”
3 257’ 25” 3 14’ 47” 3 0’ 30”
4 3 56’ 33” 4 19’ 43” 4 0’ 39”
5 4.55! 42” 5 24’ 38” 5 0’ 49”
6 5 54’ 50” 6 29’ 34” 6 0’ 59”
7 6 53’ 58” 7 34’ 30” 7 1’ 09”
8 7 53' 07" 8 39’ 26” 8 VY 19”
9 8 52’ 15” 9 44’ 21” 9 1’ 29"

10 9 51’ 23” 10 49' 17" 10 1’ 39"

Compute Moon's rate: 13° 10’ 35” per year

MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY PLANETS

Aries is the first sign of the zodiac and occupies the first house in
the natural zodiac. Its ruler is Mars. Therefore no matter where Mars
falls in a radix figure it exerts a first house influence. In the same way,
Venus ruling Taurus the second natural zodiacal sign is a financial and
second house influence; Mercury, ruling Gemini, is a third house in-
fluence, etc.

[He] 2] ml= Tm 4 Ts Te]
¥ [Dole str [s Ts Te |
[House] | [asta sftet7 {ets fiofi fia]

MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY SIGNS

Mars, (self, aggression, etc) a first house influence, when located in
Taurus (the natural second sign), exerts its first house influence in a
second house or money and finance manner. The selfness and aggres-
Siveness of a Mars in Aries becomes (in Taurus) money aggression. In
a mundane radix figure this position, for illustration, might appear in
the fifth house. This would presage (Mars in Taurus in the 5th) money
aggression through speculative (5th) channels involving agriculture,
Teal estate, and mines (With the sign Taurus on the fifth cusp, Aries—
tuled by Mars—would be on the 4th)

--- PAGE 36 of 77 ---

[OCR] 60 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

The key to the entire planetary house pattern is as follows:

+o] &

ole/+el>|—Is|-

ed

DEGERORS

| 8 |
| ot

CROGS GRE
Slolos[olo[+[o)~[-[s]=[<

CORQESSRERECd
alsfolu/>/fs[-|s|=[5|0/0}

Loco] >

Pb
arta

CHAPTER NINE

THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART

A basic premise of astro computation procedures is precise timing as
mandatory before accurate interpretation can occur. It is only by chart-
ing the exact moment of the first breath of a child at birth registers the
implications of the lifetime which follows. In much the same tradition
the birth or beginning of a business plan or project, a company or a
nation often reveals future successes, dangers and disasters. Many en-
tire lifetimes have been spent devising, guessing, testing chart times of
beginnings.

A major example in the past 50 years has been the United States
birth, with controversy and almost endless debate over what is the cor-
rect birth chart. Such debates are good exercises in research but none
of them are of value in actual financial decisions. Many years ago a
very earnest researcher came to me with a record of transits to the
position of the Moon in the July 4th, 1776 United States Chart. Hind-
sight seemed to prove specific market action for years in the past with
this system. A new convergence was to occur in a matter of weeks. It
failed completely.

The location of the Moon is one position in the Noon or Libra Rising
chart at the left. This figure long was accepted as official inasmuch as
the Declaration of Independence got its last signature about 11:20 A.M.
and the official public announcing, by a Town Crier, was a few minutes
after 12 noon. But critics rose to attack the time of the chart. Libra
Rising with Saturn were not the image or American spirit, or so their
interpretation methods claimed.

In research bulletins of the American Academy of Astrologians, sub-
sequently amplified in my articles in the ASTROLOGICAL BULLE-

TINA, and then presented in the chapter on The Uranus Cycle, the key_
was the 7th to-Sth degrees of Gemini. Uranus was Crossing this area
on July 4th, 1776, just as it had done at the Torming of the fst cotomy
Ce span in 1523, Sezin in the formation of the Jamestown
Colony in t667,and the timing of the 1691 Revolution,

Due principally to this observation opinion began to use 2:19 A.M.
July 4th, 1776 as the chart time for the USA birth. It placed Uranus
exactly on the Ascendant and the M. C. in Aquarius with the Moon
nearly conjunct in the 10th house. No longer was the Moon in 24° but
at 18°, promptly ruining the mass of doctrine on Progressions, etc.
Students who have spent 25 years and often far much less in astro re-
search study currently boldly proclaim this early morning chart as the
Gemini figure and authentic key to the USA for the past, present and
future. Arguments are endless but the innovative, compassionate, sci-
ence aspiring Uranus on an Ascendant is more romantic than a cautious,

systematic, thrifty Saturn.
For years members of the Continental Congress discussed prepara-

--- PAGE 37 of 77 ---

[OCR] 62 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

tion of a formal statement of principles. The formation of a committee
of three was authorized the morning of June 10th, 1776 to draw up a
declaration to be submitted to the Congress. Thomas Jefferson did the
actual writing which the committee presented. When was the initial
idea born? But it is historical fact the people of the 13 colonies learned
that independence, probable war and internal dissension became official
in a do or die decision about noon.

In the chart for noon Saturn is a key. As Llewellyn George often
said to me “Saturn is discipline, tenacity, just and tinged with puritan-
ism; but it has a bad name as reaper and depressant of excesses.” The
most cursory examination of the transits.of Saturn in the Libra Rising
chart through the 9th, 10th and_11th Houses in American history is a
clock, timing pro Ss. en Saturn has been aspected by other slow
moving planet positions at each of these periods the effects are specific.
The phenomena may be now traced back for two centuries for confirma-
tion. One obvious example was in the years immediately following
1929. Foreign affairs in the 1920’s had been beyond the capacities of
private enterprise credit and financial resources and the confidence
which accrued. A major effect of the 1929 crash was mortgage fore-
closures on a broad scale. Reference to page 39 of section II lists house
meanings. In 1930 expansive and optimistic Jupiter was at the MC of
the USA Libra chart reflecting business activity, vested authority, etc,
opposed by Saturn the reaper and depresser at the cusp of the 4th house
(real property, tangible assets, anti-optimistic vested authority, etc).
To compound this stern indication was the square of Uranus near a
conjunction with Mars near the cusp of the 7th house (foreign relations,
foreign trade, worker income and payrolls, sales volume of business,
etc.). This forms a devestating negative situation and for the USA
notably severe. The first signs of any relief did not appear until the
second quarter of 1932 with the initial financial recovery apparent as of
July 9th under the trine of Jupiter and Uranus with Saturn weak and
retrograde in Aquarius.

Comparable inspections may be made from an ephemeris of the year
involved and planetary positions compared. Use aspect interaction and
the related USA Libra chart positions according to planet meanings on
page 49. Admittedly this is a very simple approach, but effective. Next
then is ignore for the moment any “birth” such as the foregoing USA
figure. In 1930 Jupiter moved into the sign of Cancer at mid-year.
On page 59 the horizontal column lists, Jupiter_as ruling the sign
Sagittarius. In the columns covering page 60 Jupiter in Cancer is

~Jupiter’s 8th house position. Under 8th house on page 40 an 8th house
Jupiter centers attention to foreign finances, money flow, credit, etc.
When in this Cancer sign position an opposition from Saturn plus the
square of Uranus forms an ominous economic portent. The situation
continued in an unrelenting fashion and then worsened as the Moon’s
Node neared a conjunction with Uranus to magnify the effects of the
stellium of Uranus, Saturn and Jupiter.

As noted on page 58 Jupiter makes its full circle approximately every

THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART 63

12_years. A return to the sign Cancer, for an example of a different
climate than the early 1930’s, was in 1954. The nation, in fact the
world, had struggled through the ruins of World War II and seemed to
have contrived a foundation for renewed growth. People generally were
discouraged and doggedly hoping for better things but were at low ebb
in 1953 (Saturn in conjunction with Neptune in Libra squared by
Uranus in the sign Cancer.). However, in 1954 Jupiter moved into
Cancer while Saturn shifted into the sign Scorpio (a trine). The Uranus
Neptune square aspect activated inflated credits in its release from
Saturn, while the Moon’s Node was sextile Neptune. The belated sec-
ondary post-war boom was underway. Serious exhaustion did not de-
velop until late in 1965 although reactions and readjustments appeared
in 1957, 1960 and 1962. Examination of those years in terms of the
foregoing methods may prove a valuable investment in interpretation
skills.

(N. B. In your initial examination—using only the ephemeris for the
years involved, make note of the sign-house of each planet, viz Neptune
in Libra is its 8th; Saturn in Libra its 10th. Thus Neptune in its sign-
house 8th reflects unlimited aspirations for money in co-operative plans
with others. Uranus Cancer is Uranus 6th sign-house denoting public
spending for military, public works, ecology, nurture of labor & agricul-
ture.)

The ultimate in interpretation tools is found in proven “birth” time
as chart formations with the location usually the capital of a country.
But for serious mundane conclusions charts erected for each quarterly
ingress a year and all the lunations are useful. Locations selected de-
pend on the subject matter. Here is a juncture where a maze of com-
putations and stacks of charts can form which defeats the basic study:
direct and simple means of aiding a conclusion without nit-picking the
impossible.

Often it is sad and very wry to read or hear about some group of
scholars, economists and statisticians had compiled masses of data which
programmed a huge computer. The answer was that employment would
increase and in another period of so many months unemployment would
shrink to so much. It is all very well but grasp the time and efforts in-
volved to conclude these generalizations. Your batting average may
never be 100% but with some time and concerted effort it can be far
ahead of the pro group. Of course, we also have to be realistic in realiz-
ing the majority only listen to what it wants to hear and what fits their
hopes or misgivings at the time.

Forecast a probable boom and no one believes it. When it occurs
they say they are sorry they didn’t listen. Forecast an economic or mar-
ket peak and a barrage of quotes that so and so, or this and that source,
states things are going much higher. Then remorse when the peak is
confirmed no action was taken. But that is the way of life; people work-
ing out their own bumbling destiny the hard way and often to die in
frustration and considerable despair. Generally denied only a very few
exert the effort and stamina to find Nature’s immutable laws and actu-

--- PAGE 38 of 77 ---

[OCR] 64 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

ally heed them. Only very bad forecasts, which are from 50 to 100%
wrong, are generally heeded as they seem to have the profound ability
to get into print and be widely quoted. A person has to dig out his own
progress if it is to be lasting. It can open up extraordinary opportunities.

Learn through texts the inherent qualities and features of each planet
as experienced from ancient times. Expansive and generally benefic by
themselves are Jupiter and Venus; Mars vigorous, aggressive, forceful,
etc. And the angular relations are extremely significant. Briefly, two
classes of angles dominate; one is the 90° span of 90, 45, 221, ete; the
other the 120° group of 120, 60, 30, 15, etc. Sometimes both occur in-
terlocked at one time such as 3 15’s making a 45. These related degrees
are, with inherent planet qualities, intensely important and often super-
sede the various complete chart figures. .

Close grasp of the significance and operation of angular relationships
are very important. In the concluding section of this work these angles
become the foundation of the program used to define probable market
trends as to prices and timing of swings and probable amplitude, using
the daily, weekly and monthly price ranges of stocks and commodities.

The preceding two sections—major cyclic trends and cyclic interpre-
tation factors—are a simplified foundation for the real goal of workable
methods.

CHAPTER TEN

AN “OVER’—SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF
ASTRO-CYCLE INTERPRETATION

Traditionalists call for the erection of astro chart figures based on a
precise time and place. For mundane subjects such as business and
market trends this means charting the exact time of the four quarterly
Ingresses of the Sun as each quarter-year begins. The place is the
locality considered the center of the subject such as a national capital.
Supplementing the Ingress figures are each New Moon, and sometimes
each Moon Quarter. This practice is mandatory for precise results.

The new student trying to get into the field without the tedium of
perhaps months of study may find this simple method encouraging and
profitable, and ignore tradition.

The initial requirement is an ephemeris for the period to be studied.
The immediate and current year usually contains the interest. A geo-
centric ephemeris is needed; this is a revised version of the official
heliocentric ephemeris issued by a number of governments for military,
naval and other astronomical applications. As we are interested in the
effects of solar and other cosmic radiation and reflective rays on the
Earth a heliocentric (Sun as center of the angular relationships)
ephemeris would be a distortion from the standpoint of the Earth.

Most complete ephemeris is RAPHAEL’S for the year desired. Pub-
lished in London for a century it is available for about $3 a copy through
most bookshops. More available and in a simple format is the Rosicru-
cian Fellowship Ephemeris, P. O. Box 713, Oceanside, Calif. 92054 at
$1.50 for each year desired. (Note: although not used in this simple
method later work will require a Table of Houses. Several are available
with the most economical and simple to use is that of the Rosicrucian
Fellowship. The various blank forms may be deferred.)

Instead of theorizing let us take an example and work on it as an
illustration you can check out for yourself. It is the afternoon of
August Ist, 1976. Current newspapers and business magazines are
chortling over bullish trends. Opinion seems general things are con-
solidating for a long boom. The statistics continue to reflect steady gains
since the upswing began in early 1975 in business and the low of stocks
late in 1974. Very nice! We can go back to sleep, buy more stocks and
continue to rake in the business as things are better than they were and
are all set to be better for a long time ahead!! Typical? Yes, and usually
wrong.

So get a sheet of paper, a pencil or a pen that writes an original, and
that ephemeris for the year 1976 and August. On the 1st we find funny
looking things heading columns of figures. We want the page carrying
DECLINATION OF THE PLANETS.

Out of this apparent maze of columns we shall only check three:

--- PAGE 39 of 77 ---

[OCR] 66 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Uranus (6) 3 Scorpio (mM)
Saturn (>) 6 Leo (S)
Jupiter (2) 27 Taurus (3)

Taurus in the zodiac circle is opposition (180°) Scorpio and
square (90°) Leo. This means that Leo is square both Taurus
and Scorpio.

In the above Jupiter has small potency as it is not “in orb” to Uranus
and Saturn, but the latter are in orb. Taking the three as a unit the
news reports and forecasts are “whistling in the dark to bolster their
spirits.” The foundation is precarious.

Reference 60 Section II Jupiter in Taurus (2 & ) is a 6th sign house
in a 2nd house sign; our notes show this involves money for national
health and safety (it could refer to vaccine, relief from flood) but also
an unusual demand for money by organized workers.

Next, the Uranus in Scorpio (6 1) again refer to page 60; an 8th
sign house in a 10th sign house suggests a large number of public policies
are viewed as irrational in matters of spending and taxation, foreign
affairs, currency and foreign exchange.

And last, Saturn in Leo (» S$.) a 5th house sign in an 8th sign house.
National apprehension over children and their lack of freedom of choice
in education, low standards of public morality, debate on national budg-
ets and taxes, lack of financial speculative confidence.

The only action in this three-way is Saturn (curtailment, discipline)
is directly in mutual assault with Uranus (innovation, impulsive, emo-
tional) and with Jupiter momentarily inactive (out of orb) we have a
nation confined largely to routine pursuits. It seems to reflect the early
August state due to the political situation. The same forces affect other
nations; various degree of turmoil, revolution, war and war threats are
occurring in Asia, Africa and Middle-East.

As the newspapers report, the statistics are good; but the astro-cycle
data state it is a neutral and precarious situation. Conclusion: it is a
period for caution. For the probable time and direction of change we
examine Jupiter’s pattern several months from now. Then the basis of
a forecast will begin to form.

In the astro-cycle data the obvious basis for the upswing in the stock
market from mid-1970 (the very favorable aspects between Jupiter,
Saturn and Uranus) was due to subside as sign changes developing in
the last half of 1972 neutralized the bullish psychology. The Transport
Average tried a new high in the second quarter (1972) to broach the
preceding triple highs of 1966, 1967 and 1968-9 but failed by a fraction
and declined. But the Industrial Average continued strong and sur-
mounted their preceding 1966 and 1968 highs until January 1973 when
weakness took hold. Jupiter in Capricorn formed a conjunctions with
the Moon’s Node and a full square (90°) to Uranus in Libra while
Saturn was retrograde and neutral in Gemini. In January the Trans-

“OVER”—SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF INTERPRETATION 67

port Average broke the preceding low in October and implied a bear
market, although full confirmation of the Transports by the Industrials
did not occur until November 1973. This established a very bearish
market climate for 1974.

Historically this has become an unusual area of national economic
affairs. Peculiar intrusions into supply-demand factors of commodities
and the export markets with unprecedented price distortions were
dwarfed by revelations which ruined the Administrative branch of
government. In our “over”-simplified astro-cycle examination for 1974
we find the Moon’s Node in Sagittarius with Saturn in opposition
(180°). Then in April Saturn moved from Gemini into Cancer (this
crosses the Mid-Heaven of the Jul: 76 U. S. Chart) the 4th
House Sign and 7th Sign Housé working toward the square (90°) re-
lation to Uranus in Libra (7th House Sign, 9th Sign House).

By September 1974 stock market liquidation became rampant,
despite a weak (retrograde) Jupiter forming a trine angle to Saturn,
as both the Moon’s Node and Uranus remained virtually unchanged.
Then, late in November, Uranus moved into Scorpio and conditions
changed. By mid-December Jupiter was direct again, moving toward a
trine with Saturn, which was beginning to get the effects of a growing
trine from Uranus. To strengthen the pattern the Moon’s Node reached
a climax by crossing opposite the 9th degree of Gemini, with a sextile
from Pluto which was trine the 9° of Gemini. This was the spot for a
massive low in the stock market for a recovery of at least 15 to 18
months.

If careful study of the foregoing three paragraphs in relation to the
ephemerides for the years is made by the notes of the economic key-
words, the technique should become clear. But you are stymied by some
factors not mentioned in the examples. They involve the Moon’s Node,
Pluto and the Jupiter-Saturn link.

In Section I the discussion on the twenty-year cycle was the periodic
conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn. For more than 100 years of busi-
ness and investment market statistics, beginning in 1812, the booms
and depressions were geared to the angular relation of Jupiter and
Saturn. An enormous amount of time and expense was applied to col-
lect the data and public records earlier than 1897. The relationshi

was_further explored in the 1930’s a nted in a book by James
Mi

ars Langham.
SO

--- PAGE 40 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER ELEVEN

THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES
BETWEEN PLANETS

The 360° circle of the astro chart is divided into twelve segments of
30° each. These segments are the signs. Their significance forms a
division: four signs are cardinal, four are fixed and four are mutable;
and another division of three Fire, three Earth, three Air and three
Water. The first forms a triangle visually and the second group a
square when drawn on the 12 segment circle. Thus, planet aspects are
of two groups, the square and the triangle or trine.

There is the conjunction or 0° in both groups. The square group
includes: the semi-square or 45° (2), the square or 90 ( ds. the
sesquiquadrate or 135° ((1) which is 90° plus 45°, and the opposition
or 180° ( 8 ). Generally all are unfavorable. . -

The trine group has the conjunction under certain conditions, the
semi-sextile or 30° (v ), the sextile or 60° (>), the trine or 120° (A)
and the quincunx or inconjunct or 150° (A). Parallels (||) depend on
the plants involved. .

In market trend interpretation the squares generally are bearish, the
trines bullish. Again there are circumstances when such an arbitrary
rule does not apply. There are specific answers to such problems but
things become rather involved in more advance studies involving sign
location of a planet and its Detriment, Exaltation, Fall, Critical degree
and Orb of Aspect. And expecting precise action, such as a market
peak, at the day and hour an aspect becomes exact, may fail. Often
the reason is that an orb of aspect should be allowed, about 2 to 5%
usually is generous, PLUS a trigger. A trigger is a fast moving planet
coming into the major aspect, particularly Mars, sometimes Mercury.
Hindsight will discover it on study from which experience will develop
so advance interpretation can take place. No two situations ever are
alike.

The conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn were but a small part of
defining market trends. But when the various aspects noted in the fore-
going are followed in the ephemeris of the statistics of the year being
examined the parallel between planetary aspects and the statistical
trends soon takes form. ;

In the 1930’s and 1940’s this usual pattern began to break up. Dis-
concerting lags began to appear; most data was failing. Examination
found Uranus aspects becoming potent. Some of the phenomena of the
Uranus 84 year cycle was detailed in Section I. As time went on it was
found that the shift of economic and money power from private forces
to the budding Washington Bureaucracy was developing a new set of
rules. Private Capitalism and Free Enterprise were more and more
coming under political control through rules of a bureaucratic structure.
It was the principal index to the panic liquidation of 1973 and 1974

THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES BETWEEN PLANETS 69

discussed in the foregoing. To the almost perfect score presented by
James Mars Langham on the interaction of Jupiter and Saturn in busi-
ness and finance for over a century it has been more complicated since
World War II.

Another useful factor applied to the interpretive procedures in the
foregoing is to use the cycle data of the Moon’s Node.

The symbol in the ephemeris of the Moon’s Node is ( £2). Other nodes
exist but we shall ignore them at this time. This Moon’s Node we
mention is more exactly the Moon’s North Node. It regresses (counter-
clockwise instead of the clockwise movement of the planets) and makes
the full circle in about 6 months more than 18 years—for our purpose
call it 18 years.

Using that unexplained and unique North American continental
point of 7°-9° Gemini as zero or starting point an unusual business
cycle cadence again appears. It seems to intensify and at times cushion
the interaction patterns of Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. (Note: recall it
was shown how potent this zero node point was in the timing of the
Uranus cycle, for example the timing of the first settlement in 1523, etc.)

Application of the aspects, both bearish and bullish, to the Moon’s
Node in the ephemeris for each year, and using the Gemini point as the
conjunction on which to form sextiles, squares, trines, etc, the major
market trend takes form. The squares approximate major lows. But
lows after sextiles differ in intensity than lows after trines. In 1976
there is a quincunx or inconjunct following an opposition. Squares for
the lows in this particular cycle were early 1961, 1970 and 1979. For
study it is suggested, beginning with the square following the sextile in
1932, process each year of the stock market with the Moon’s Node
aspects in order to grasp the method yourself.

Another element in our chain of factors is the probable effects of
Pluto. Relatively new in tracing its probable use it appears to intrude
underworld thinking related to autocratic power ranging from gang
warfare to misuse of established authority. It has generally been as-
signed to rule the sign Scorpio. This bears very careful scrutiny. For
many reasons having no place for discussion here it seems to relate
more to Aries than Scorpio. Debate is unnecessary but in defining
situations where Pluto is prominent consider the Aries climate. Inci-
dentally for a long, long time Mars has been assigned to rule Aries AND
Scorpio, with Pluto assigned as co-ruler of Scorpio which is subject to

loubt.

When some facility has been acquired in co-ordinating the planets in
their House Signs, then their Sign Houses, their aspect relationships
from the proper ephemeris, on your note pad, refer to the Keywords in
the group arrangement which follows for your budding interpretation
Progress. In the course of time you then will want to cast complete
charted figures using the Table of Houses already mentioned. Locations
selected as mentioned also start with the Ingresses and then the Luna-
tions.

--- PAGE 41 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER TWELVE

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH
HOUSE-SIGNS AND ASPECTS

Trend conditions at any given time are vital in any investment
action. If the major trend is upward investment hazards are minimal;
making commitments in a major downward trend or during a rally
correction in a downward trend can be hazardous. Let’s try to illustrate
a process by which circumstances can be defined. We select a memo-
rable and most confused period. . .

In mid-May 1942 both the national and international situation was
considerably mixed. The impact of an attack on Pearl Harbor in the
preceding December had the domestic scene in a general state of
feverish doubts. Turn to Raphael’s ephemeris for 1942 and note May
15th. There was a lunation or New Moon at 5:45 A.M. GMT, but we
will not plot it out at this point as too complicated. The individual
planet positions have our attention. .

Neptune () in (m) Virgo: 7th Sign-House in a 6th House-Sign,
heavily afflicted (negative aspected). This reflects rumors, false and
true; and a chaotic emotional state among the masses relating to Armed
Services, food, clothing, jobs and the enemy. With a wide conjunction
by Moon’s Node, which is precisely square the critical national point of
9° Gemini (3) which signals a classic low in economic trends, it can be
a memorable point in history.

Uranus (@ ) in 5th Sign-House and 3rd House-Sign, a general state
of apparent disruption and seemingly chaotic situation in transportation,
feverish attempts to coordinate plans and action by authority, which is
downgraded by public emotions, as . . .

Saturn (>) in 6th Sign-House in 3rd House-Sign, is precisely at
apparent conjunction with Uranus. The people (6th) and 3rd (com-
munications, ideas) feel scared, uncertain, even licked. Briefly adding
to the crisis is Mercury (¥ ) in its Ist and 4th Sign-Houses in the 3rd
House-Sign, amplifying the foregoing and adding worry over property,
crops, etc. And then Venus ( @ ) 12th Sign-House in Ist House-Sign in
square aspect (unfavorable) to Mars in Cancer (9%) 4th Sign-House in
10th House-Sign. This latter hopes but distrusts national leadership;
briefly void-of-course (without strong aspects) from the Sun-Moon con-
junction.

If we think these notes on each planet through we realize the same
vibrations are world-wide. Obviously the response varies from environ-
ment and location how each factor may be most dominant.

Turn to the chapter on MUNDANE RULERSHIPS. The Raphael
Ephemeris positions as of noon GMT May 15th, 1942 are entered in
rulership charts set up for Washington, Tokyo, Berlin and London as

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 71

appended. Note all planet positions are alike but houses differ. The
foregoing interpretation applies to all of them but the locality charts
reflect enormous differences in the accents and psychology in each
location.

The London figure has an 11th house concentration which centers
national affairs on government policies and finance, planning, legislation,
business and national policies. Ruler of the 10th (leadership) in the
Ascendant (the people) marks a belligerent unity with Venus in 10th
enthusiasm; dogged will to come out on top.

Berlin differs little in problems and practice except Pluto is on the
Ascendant (The People) reflecting a full dictatorship. The Venus to
Pluto aspect is waning and past the MC; and square Mars dominates
the 12th, amply reflecting a police state.

The Tokyo figure has leadership (10th) placed in 7th (foreign ad-
versaries), indicated by the Sun, and most concentration on 7th house
(foreign) affairs and 8th house (costs and plans of 7th). The people
(Mars ruler of 1st and 6th) giving cooperation as the square of Venus
is below the horizon confined to misgivings by youth and children.
Neptune marks illusions of success while the Node in the 10th marks
a feeling of well being.

The Washington chart has the Gemini concentration past the Nadir
and working upward with all-out attention to planning, finance and all
resources directed to (Saturn ruling 10th) conj. Uranus ruling 11th
(legislation, etc) on longer term. Neptune in 6th allows unleashed
rumors, but the people (Asc) are unifying (Venus Aries) with a spirit
of willingness to fight in the streets (ruler of Ist at cusp of 4th), if
necessary; a vigor is stirring.

This chart should be something of a classic. It marks most positions
under the horizon (the low ebb of a cycle) but most positions rising
(new beginnings). In the latter is the major conj. of Saturn-Uranus in
Gemini with Mercury and Jupiter. If a nation, emotionally and physi-
cally, was ever lower it is hard to find. That it is a low is reflected by
the Node precisely square its critical point at 9° Gemini FOLLOWING

a Trine (this differs from a subsequent square following sextile by the
Node).

As noted several times 7 to 9 degrees of Gemini mark a unique
national hinge or critical point. The Node takes about 181% years for a
complete cycle, something over 9 years for each half. Its apparent mo-
tion is counter-clockwise. To further explore the background the
England critical national point seems to work out at 14° of Gemini. Un-
til recent years comment was constant that major British events always
had a similar counterpart later in the United States. British devalua-
tion, British stock market bear markets, British election upsets and
some time later much the same appeared in American affairs. Usually
it timed to the aspects to the Node critical points.

--- PAGE 42 of 77 ---

[OCR] 72 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS

New Moon—May 15, 5h. 45m. 38. 6m. FULL MOoN—May 30, 5h. 28m. 532, a.m.
MAY, 1942. [RAPHAEL'S EPHEMERIS) MAY, 1942.

il

‘Neptune. Herschel. Saturn. Jupiter. Mars. D Venus. Mercury. De Mutu:
Lat. | Dec. | Lat.) Dec. | Lat.) Dec. , Lat.; Dec. | Lat.) Deelin. M | Late Declins | Lat. Doclins | Node. al Aspects.
| Cn CO, DC CC, ( rr rr rr cr a oe Ze
1 N21) 2N 15/0 S 11/19N 49/1 8 47/18 N 13/0 S 13/22 N57/1 N 25/24 N50! 110 56| 2849 1N23/19N51), rompes| 3 SMES ogo PMR SH:
2 150 Lj19 Sli 4618 170 13/22 sell 2524 47ctNi? at 4} 2 6 75271 aria 62N3010 21 © PYG GY Fee
2 160 11/19 52/1 46118 20/0 13/23 O11 25/24 44154 4g Bl 12/1 21) 9 Sol 56/22 1005 ggl0 15 5 O28. 9h, HH
2 17/0 11/19 541 4618 24/0 13123 2/1 25/24 41lo4 go 7 1910 36] 4 352 8123 4155 S810 97 on. yee eet?
2 18/0 1019 55|1 4618 2710 12)23 3/1 24/24 36/04 54 91261 ON 9) on gg2 17123 4807 “p10 29. y Pb. eA:
2 180 1019 57/1 4618 30/0 12/23 Sil 24/24 3ligg—og THT 32]0 66452 24]24 2357 a5) © Bae BME:
2 1910 1019 58/1 4618 34/0 12/23 6/1 24/24 25), 09 131 38) 1 43/5 gi2 2624 4915 5419 50)13. Qe.
2 19 1020 OO 45/18 37,0 1223 81 24/24 19\94 15 1511 43) 2 30) 2 a2 26125 Bios ul 43)14. @Ph.
2 2010 1020 |) 4518 400 1223 91 23/24 125, “3 171 48} 3 18|2 Sto ois 1425 1 37/2 oud. gPy.
2 20:0 1020 21 4518 44/0 1123 101 2324 454 9 Lgl 52/4 5) 4 og 2 12125 16) 14] 9 S1lls OAV. ¥c2e. os.
2 210 1020 41 45/18 470 1123 Til 2323 S5i55—57 211 56) 4 53/5 —Fa]2 0/25 5g —g 9 eal’ op HL h. gL BOY
2 210 1020 5/1 45/18 5010 11/23 121 22/23 4603 4) 231 595 41/5 "7h aos 25 89 inde ou. 4 bes OO¥
2 220 1020 71 45/18 53 11/23. 13)1 22/23 36153 31 252 216 29 6 53|t 25/24 44/54 34 9 12/23. O26, dh. dZLh.
2 2210 10120 81 45/18 5610 1023 141 22/23 2655 99 272 47 17) 7 Gil 224 22 1 9 bas Sx ol. ZO
2 2210 10/20 101 5910 10|23 21/23 292 6 8 5/4 590 34/23 575, 4a) 8 59129. J PE SP a.
2 22/0 1020 111 2'0 10,23 7| 8 0 5/23. 27 8 52/90. 9#F, 1h. VY
Ff | @ m7) a ‘un
Long. | Dec. | Long. | Lat.| Dec. | ) Long. |) Dec. y
Ra I ee
F | 235 80x28 23/14N58/18M39 39/4N 4012 8 63/26M11 46148 33 1 29 ¥ 13/29 51211723] 30n12/25¢ 4122 4 58 z QA) se
S | 239 4|1L 26 3415 16 3744 35/5 115 5811716 5017 7 2/27 2629 17/29 12/21 35,3 4926 824 56 IAIK £2)
@ (243 112 24 44115 3418 47 18/5 2/17 58/26 14 54/18 30 27 25/29 20/29 20/21 47; 4 25/27 12.26 62) jQ &
M | 2 46 5813 22 5215 52) 3438 41/4 42/18 42/10V457 52/18 36 4\27 24/29 2429 28/21 59/5 2/28 17128 44/9) IO so
Tz! 2 50 54114 20 59:16 9/18 11 5014 3118 11/25 20 14117 29 5)27 2329 27/129 35/22 11) 6 39/29 21) On34/A gia la
W]2 54 51/15 19 4/16 26 22022 499 11/16 32) 9-219 3315 20 6/27 22/20 30/29 43/22 2476 15 OV26 2 21, | PAJAIA KA
Tu! 2 58 47/16 17 816 43/16 10 312 9)13 56/22 55 5412 22 7/27 21/20 34/29 5022 366 62)1 31/4 401 9 AlgizZ
IF |3 244/17 15 11/16 5929 35 5911 1/10 40|-611 6 8 50 8/27 20:29 37/20 58|22 48) 7 29/2 3715 44) | oO v
IS |3 6 4018 13 12/17 1612>¢41 3808 8) 6 5519 7 5714 57 927 19129 41/0 623 18 53 42/7 2x al lo
@ (310 3719 11 1217 32\25 30 281 16) 2 57) 1749 32,0 55 &/27 18\29 4410 13/23 13,8 42) 4 48,8 541 | | Sleleic
iM | 3 14 33120 9 117 47; 8~ 5 302 18} 1N 614 18 41) 3N 5 11/27 1829 48) 0 21:23" 26, 9 19) 5 53/10 23°70 $%
Tc] 3.18 30/21 7 818 3/20 29 22/3 1315 2126 37 486 64 12/27 17.29 51] 0 29/23 38 9 55| 6 59|ll 48) ZiZ|*
W | 3 22 27/22 6 4118 18) 2444 1313 58) 8 42) 8448 48/10 24 13127 16129 55} 0 3623 51/10 32/8 5/13 10, DO) imi MZ
TH] 3 26 23123 2 58/18 32/14 51 4214 31/11 5820 53 5/13 26 14/27 15/29 58] 0 44/24 4/11 9/9 12/14 27) Q Zi%| IZ
F | 3 30 2024 0 51/18 47726 53 64 52l14 43] 2051 53/15 52 15}27 14] Om 2| 0 52/24 17111 46/10 18115 4114) fal d!dlwiziz
IS | 3 34 1624 58 42/19 If 81149 355 1/16 5Ojl4 46 23/17 37 1627 14/0 5) 1 0/24 29/12 2311 24/16 SIT fe 1 1X21
@ | 3 38 1325 56 32/19 1520 42 294 56/18 12,26 38 6/18 36 B27 13/0 91 7124 42112 59/12 31/17 BS7lul7 é 6
M |342 996 54 21:19 28| 20n33 304 38/18 47| 8an28 59/18 47 igi27 12/0 12) 1 15/24 5513 3613 3818 59 |\7'
Tc] 346 627 52 819 4i1'l4 24 564 8|18 33,20 214318 8 19/27 12:0 16 1 23/26 814 13/14 45/19 56/7
W1350 228 49 54/19 54:26 19 483 27/17 30| 2,19 40116 40 2027 11,0 19] 1 31/25 2il4 50115 52/20 49%] |e We
TH! 3.53 6929 47 37/20 7) 821 50/2 37/15 30/14 26 54/14 27 21/27 11,0 23; 1 39/25 34/15 27/16 59/21 38) | diz Z
F | 3 67 56| Om45 19/20 19120 35 27/1 38/13 526 48 611 32 22/27 10/0 261 46/25 4716 3118 6/22 23) IM! AL
IS |} 4 1 52/1 43 O20 31, 3m 5 27/0 34) 9 51) Om28 918 1 2327 10,0 30/1 54/26 O16 4019 1423 sidivlwigio) jzja
@ | 4 549] 2 40 3920 4215 56 460N34,6 422 31 50/4 1 $127 910 33) 2 2/26 13/17 17/20 21/23 39) 17 \%
25M |4 9 4513 38 17120 5329 13 481 42| 1 52, 6=3 0| 0820 25127 9] 0 37] 2 10/26 27/17 54/21 29/24 10lAlKIé/AlA
SiTu| 4 13 42,4 35 5321 4/12=59 40/2 47) 2834)20 3 48/4 48 2627 8, 0 40, 217,26 40/18 31/22 37i24 36 rigid) jo
w | 4 17 38) 5 3327/21 14/27 15 16/3 44,7 1! 4M33 40/9 9 27,27 8 0 44/2 2526 5319 8/23 44/24 58iQ/iOlw al |ea
Ita] 4 21 3516 31 1/21 24/11M[58 2214 28/11 11/19 28 3213 3 2827 7/0 47/2 33/27 6/19 45/24 5225 15 Z Q Q
F | 4 25 31/7 28 33/21 3427 3 4)4 S414 44) 4 $40 44/16 10 29/27 7/0 51) 2 41/27 20/20 21/26 025 28 JAK OF lA
S | 429 28) 8 26 4/21 43/12720 65 O/17 19/19 59 45/18 10 3027 7/0 54, 2 4827 33120 58/27 8/25 35] $1) aig
@ | 4 33 25) 9 23 34/21 52127 38 13/4 44/18 41| S14 5/18 52 127 70 58 2 56.27 46/21 35/28 17/25 38] ol a IAS

Fist QuarTan—May 23, 9h. 10m. 87s. a.m, Last QUARTER—May 7, Oh. 12m. 358. p.m,

‘These pages are reproduced from the 1942 Raphael’s Ephemeris with the permission
of W. Foulsham & Co. Ltd., Berks, England

--- PAGE 43 of 77 ---

[OCR] 74 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Tokyo, Japan

May 15th, 1942
36N 140E

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 75

Berlin, Germany

May 15th, 1942
52N13E

Most planets past MC and in decline; implies that several years of
increasing problems soon will begin.

Leadership (10th) ruler in 7th reflects most attention to foreign af-
fairs; attention to resources (4th), propaganda (3rd) and national mo-
rale (5th). Dictatorial policies (Pluto) past zenith but continues popular
(trine Venus).

Pluto (dictatorship) on Asc (people) trine Venus at MC, marks prob-
able peak of success and power, but the sequence may not be grasped
quickly due to the concentration in the 11th house.

Neptune in 3rd (propaganda) fools the people successfully and they
have a sense of well-being (Node in 2nd) (money).

--- PAGE 44 of 77 ---

[OCR] 76 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Washington, D. C.

May 15th, 1942
39N77W

Most positions below horizon but rising; conjunction of Uranus
Saturn; receding conjunction of Jupiter; Node exactly square 9° Gemini.
Mars, ruler of Asc (the people) at cusp of 4th: a major low point. Major
low in morale and values—a bullish index with Jupiter nearing 26°
from Saturn.

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 77

London, England

May 15th, 1942
52 NOE

All positions at the East and rising; the heavy concentration in the
11th house reflects concentrated efforts in a dogged and aggressive na-
tional attitude (Mars rising in Asc (people) trine Venus near MC (love
for leaders). Saturn Uranus conjunction reflects confidence and aid
from 7th (foreign) and 8th (foreign resources).

--- PAGE 45 of 77 ---

[OCR] 78 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Millions of dollars in manhours have been used to collect statistics,
catalogue them and then run them through computers to try to define
the cycles of business and its many facets. The result is a maze of data.
There are the 41 to 43 month cycles, the 414 year, 9 year, 10 years, 18
year or three times the 18 year for a 54 year affair. All of them are
averages but acceptable by mathematical standards. For example, they
locate several cycles of varying length which when averaged come to
nine years although none of the cycles were precisely nine years dura-
tion but anywhere between perhaps 7 and 12 years long. So 9 years
becomes a measure and the thing never meets anticipations. Back to
collecting data they go. The real core is apparent in the cycle of the
Node.

But to get back to our May 1942 Washington figure. Here we have
a beautiful low point for conclusions on which to make some market
estimates. First, there are major signs of a low ebb in national confidence
and prospects of a revival. Prices are much depressed and what might be
termed over-sold. But the action of the Node is the lead-off. After the
square from Virgo to 9° of Gemini there is nothing until 1946 to halt
an uptrend. Additional evidence is as follows.

Adverse or negative aspects between Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus
depress, in one form or another, business activity and markets. A con-
junction involving Saturn is notably severe. Such an event occurred
when Jupiter was conjunct Saturn early in 1941 and then the Saturn
Uranus conjunction in 1942. Relief from these depressing factors began
to wane (angle relationships widened) as soon as the conjunctions be-
came completed. Late in May 1942 Jupiter was approaching 26° away
from Saturn, a bullish index, with little of bearish importance until
90° difference between Jupiter and Saturn appears. It occurs May 5th,
1946, which approximates the high in markets since 1942. From early
1946, factors were sustaining but not bullish until 1949, etc.

We could proceed and get into Ingress and Lunation charts, the
part of Parallels and the details of interpretive method. It would soon
tangle our goal of a perspective of market estimates. In our “over-
simplified” method of cycle interpretation we keep everything as simple
as possible and confine it to the following:

First, scanning the ephemeris positions for the period involved to
note the interaction of Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and the Node. Then we
translate the positions into Sign-House and House-Sign notes. We can
stop there and record when interaction occurs at critical angles of
favorable and unfavorable aspects. (Favorable are those in the triology;
unfavorable in the quadrature as already detailed). Then a trend pros-
pect can be concluded.

Like statistical cycles reported these days about business, all agree
they exist but the timing is something else. Every week in astro-cycles
differs from any other week in history. Each week, each month and
each year has to be plotted by itself. One thing that pushes the statisti-
cian up the wall is the apparent ‘retrograde’ pattern of a planet; it seems
to go backward in its course and then go forward again. Sure, Jupiter

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 79

makes its complete cycle in 12 years but one year it seems to bounce
back and forth and then suddenly it goes ahead on course. In most
cases a planet in retrograde has a reduced potency; the things it signifies
seem to stick to routine.

It really does not disturb the situation except we simply are unable
to can it, or tape or simplify the rules for cold storage use. We become
like the chap who asked a world famous physician why, after all the
expensive tests undeniably proved that a certain patient could not sur-
vive more than a few weeks the patient was alive and apparently vig-
orous after ten years. The physician is supposed to have replied: “Let’s
give thanks for what we know and not be over-disturbed over what we
do not know.”

As familiarity with these factors emerges and facility in their use
develops the goals of confidence and profits will follow. It may be a
cliche but ‘knowledge is power’ and in terms of markets, whether stocks,

bonds or commodities, knowledge can be profits, security and peace of
mind.

--- PAGE 46 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER THIRTEEN

PLANETARY ASPECTS
OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS

For ease of interpretation the solar system is charted in a 360° circle
divided into 12 sections called houses with the noon position the Mid-
heaven and 10th house segment, and eastern (left) horizon the as-
cendant and the 1st house.

The angles or aspects between planets are divided into numerous
divisions but in general the most useful are the fourths or squares, the
triology or trines and the fifths or quintiles. The squares in general are
classed as bearish, unfavorable and activating. The trines are bullish,
favorable, serene, constructive and the expansion urge.

The fifths or quintiles are generally ignored, but in mundane work
covering markets and economic affairs they are very significant. Trend
reversals usually are lost in the trine and the squares but are timed by
the fifths. At the right a 360° circle has five divisions of 72° each.
Visualize also 10 divisions of 36° each and 20 divisions of 18° each; all
useful.

Often, to keep data clarified, it is well to consider waxing and waning
aspects; as the angular relationship narrows it is waxing; as it widens it
is waning. For example a waxing trine is labeled 120° while a waning
trine is labeled 240°.

Keep in mind the square group of aspects, the 2242°, the 45°, 90°,
135°, 180°. The trines relate to 15°, 30°, 60°, 120°, etc, but note 135°
relates to 45° also. Apparent contradiction is adjusted by noting the

PLANETARY ASPECTS OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS 81

nature of the planets involved; a benefic such as Jupiter and Venus
would have an aspect of the bullish tendencies.

The fifths or quintiles relate to 18°, 36°, 54°, 72°, etc. But quintiles
often are turning or resolving areas. An upward market trend marked
by a trine aspect situation which is waning comes to a quintile aspect

(the trine changes to quintile) and a decline appears; if followed by a
waxing square type of aspect declining or bearish trends are confirmed.

The rule continues to keep it simple; in general stay with the potent
aspects of the three groups and avoid trying to include every minor
aspect.

--- PAGE 47 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER FOURTEEN

FORMATION OF A MARKET
FORECAST

In the preceding chapter we attempted to work into a perspective
of prevailing moods, opinions and circumstances dominant in a country
at a specific time. By expanding the data we should be able to uncover
something tangible to form some estimates of market trend probabilities.

The “over”-simplified method of planetary houses and sign-houses
is expanded slightly by placing the positions in a locality chart or
figure. As an initial example one day is examined for its local reaction
in three widely separated localities, viz, Kansas City, New York City and
the Philippines. (See the charts and comments on the next page).

To follow, the next example presents six charts set up for crucial
market points from 1956 to 1970 inclusive. Notes appended each
chart, if examined with bar charts of the stock market, such as the
Industrials, for these years discussed, will aid in grasping the relation-
ships.

Let us briefly recapitulate the step by step program of defining astro-
cycles and then applying them as a basis of interpretation in estimating
probable speculative market trends.

(A) We become familiar with planets in their natural house-
signs and then sign-houses (see charts pages 59 and 60).

(B) The zodiac is divided into 12 divisions or houses and we
become familiar with each house meaning (page 39).

(C) Geographical locality computing is learned (the complica-
tions of Ingresses, lunations, etc, are avoided).

(D) We synthesize planets in house locations and use sign ruler-
ship (see page 59) as in Horary methods for general estimates of a
chart.

(E) Then natural house signs, plus sign-house interpretation,
are added to consideration of rulerships and the planetary powers
for detailed data.

(F) Keep in mind specific angular relationships of Jupiter,
Saturn and Uranus are the key to stocks in the plus or minus,
bullish or bearish, critical degrees noted in the text. Each com-
modity has its own combination of one or two of the foregoing plus
either Mercury, or Venus, or Mars.

August 18th, 1976. The planetary positions are for Noon GMT from
Raphael’s Ephemeris for 1976. A Table of Houses (readily available
is published by The Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, California, 318
pp. $4.50, for Latitude 1 to 66 degrees) gives the house cusps. From the
Locality Maps on pages 8 and 9 and the latitude and longitude of each
location compute the 10th House (MC) figure according to the direc-
tions on page 7.

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 83

It is suggested that a series of dates are selected, such as major highs
and lows of markets, and charts like these set up. It will develop facility
in interpretation. For stocks use New York; for wheat, corn, etc, use
Chicago, etc. Primary attention should be directed to Uranus, Saturn and

Jupiter.

New York, N. Y.

41N71W
August 18th, 1976

Outlook for stock market after Reblican Nat'l Convention today.

Uranus square Saturn (ruling the 10 and 11th) reflects doubts over
business outlook. Saturn and Jupiter, with Jupiter now out of Gemini
into Taurus, approach 72° which is a bearish point.

Stocks are bearish.

--- PAGE 48 of 77 ---

[OCR] ea ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 85

Kansas City, Mo. ~

39N 95 W South Mindanao, Philippines
August 18th, 1976 —

7N124E
August 18th, 1976

ee

29° 8 2

Nomination of a Republican for President. Unusually successful
money, publicity and entertainment affair for the locality (ruler of 10th

in 2nd and Moon 2nd ruling 5th). Two planets on Desc. and two fac- Same time as Nat'l Republican Convention; Earthquake and tidal
tions. Ruler of 11th (incumbent) trine Neptune in 9th retrograde ruling wave with upwards of 20,000 homeless. . an
Ist (confused public situation). Uranus, ruler of 4th on Asc. square Saturn in 10th at MC which is

square eclipse point of April 29th, 1976 on Descendant at 9° Taurus
which is opposition Asc. and Uranus.

--- PAGE 49 of 77 ---

[OCR] 86 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Here are some examples for study. Check with a market chart of
stocks for 75 years, for example. After the rise from a 1949 low the
Averages reached 741 on the Industrials in 1962 and then declined to
525. Subsequently was a rise to 1001 late in 1965 and a decline in
1966 to 736.

In 1956, after a steep rise from 1953, the Industrials wavered at 524.
In 1956 and 1957 they formed a triple high; thus the wavering cyclic
figures of January and May 1956 which are appended.

But the factors prevented confusion over prospects and patience was
the only need. It is the Node and the interaction (angles) between
Jupiter and Saturn and then Uranus with both of them which gives us
our basic keys. Keep it simple is the rule; rule breakers will not listen so
they will tangle with Parallels, then add Venus, Mars and Mercury in
the search for the absolutes which in reality do not exist.

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 87

New York City

41N74W
January 15, 1956

Here Saturn is square Jupiter—very bearish usually but here the
square is brief and Jupiter is apparent retrograde weakening it.

Trine to Uranus also weak as Uranus is retrograde. Then the Node is
not at a critical point. Indication: probable peak in the offing, but not
now.

--- PAGE 50 of 77 ---

[OCR] 88 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 89

New York City New York City
41N71W 41N71W
March 6th, 1962 May Ist, 1956

Bearish data first half of year with Jupiter Saturn at 18° (bearish) Node has reached opposition to 9° Gemini, a market top index.
Mars conjunct Jupiter opposition Uranus. Pluto square the Gemini Neptune square Uranus heavy distribution; confusion over 11th and
point 7°-9°. Downside initial objective Node sextile 9° Gemini in late 7th house public policies.

July and then September Jupiter Saturn of bullish 27° point. Nothing Nothing bullish. Look for downside confirmation at Jupiter-Saturn
significant to deter uptrend maturing until August 1965 with Node 9° 72° point in mid-July. Probable low November 1957 when Node
Gemini.

reaches 150° to 9° Gemini point and September Jupiter Saturn sextile
confirmed.

--- PAGE 51 of 77 ---

[OCR] 90 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

These examples of market trends from late in 1968 through 1971
indicate cyclic data was correct, and economic opinion, professional
judgment and ‘insider’ confidence were all wrong. It was a classic rout
of the conglomerate craze, the pyramiding of growth stocks, and bloody
nosing the wonder kids and their new fresh-from-graduate-school eco-
nomics.

Actually it was perhaps the sadest and ruinous time for the new
generation of ‘investors’ convinced in the ease of a fast buck. In reality
it was 1929 in collapsed situations again, but instead of the debt of
margin calls which could not be met, this collapse erased the buying
capital of thousands, but who hold their certificates today hoping the
improbable will occur and they may “get even.”

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 91

New York City

41N71W
Nov 24th, 1968

£5
15

Transport Average has a new high but the Industrials failed by 6
points and technical weakness expands. Jupiter near conjunct Uranus
with both opposed by Saturn, a major bearish index. . ;

Saturn, ruling 10th, in the Asc, with Neptune ruling 12th in 7th—
inherent decline of national confidence over leadership in foreign poli-
cies.

--- PAGE 52 of 77 ---

[OCR] 92 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 93

New York City New York City
41N71W 41N71W
January 1st, 1970 April 28th, 1970

Sept 1969 rally under Jupiter-Saturn 150° now exhausted with bear- Node at 9° Pisces in square to Geminin 9° critical point; due is an

ish Jupiter-Saturn 180°—rejection of foreign affairs due to Jupiter in important low. Industrials have declined 368 points, more than 30%,
7th ruling 8th and 9th, opposed by Saturn in 2nd (money) ruling 10th since late in 1968. Technical rebound would carry to March 24th, 1971
(leadership policies). for 162° Jupiter Saturn with Jupiter stationery. Such a pattern would

Technical structure very weak and nothing bullish until Node reaches offer a low in early November 1971 with Node at 9° Aquarius, trine to
9° in late April 1970. Gemini 9°.

--- PAGE 53 of 77 ---

[OCR] Section ITI

MARKET CHARTS

A CORRELATION OF
THE GEOMETRICAL METHOD

A simplified scientific procedure of charting the
prices of grain and security markets. An aid
in forecasting and co-ordinating price trends

with cyclical and technical factors.

Copyright 1938, 1961, & 1978 by L. J. Jensen
All rights reserved

--- PAGE 54 of 77 ---

[OCR] FOREWORD

The charting fundamentals and their applications presented in this
section originally were published by the author in the book “MARKET
CHARTS—A Correlation of the Geometrical Method” copyright 1934,
and for many years out of print. This new edition continues virtually
unchanged except for an added number of working examples to il-
lustrate workaday applications.

More than fifty years have elapsed since I first began to delve into
possible clues to panics and booms plus the never-ending constant price
changes in markets for stocks and commodities in particular. That
study brought intensive research in the late 1920’s and became profes-
sional advisory services until retirement in 1971. Advertising was never
used as the clientele developed from readers of several national publi-
cations to which I was a regular contributor from 1933 to 1957 when I
assumed full time effort as analyst for a Stock Exchange organization.

Intrusion of the biographical comment is to underscore that fifty
years of market efforts which contained some forty years of first hand
relations with people and organizations in markets produced experi-
ence. Again and again many of the finest people sought me out for
suggestions in trading and investment procedure. Too many times mar-
ket profits and their successful interpretation of market potentials had
turned sour. In a few instances the lessons were accepted, studied and
then, following the basic factors devoid of the ‘fear and greed’ emotions,
success became realized.

Human perception is blunted when too many trees block a view of
the forest. Tape watching, hanging over the news ticker, or carefully
scrutinizing orders being written by a broker interspersed with shouts:
“the floor is selling so-and-so,” “Cargill is buying wheat,” or “A big extra
is about to be announced by such-and-such company,” are suicidal. All
a successful trader needs from a broker is confirmation of buying and
selling orders, and refusal to let the broker say more than to give quotes
in order to satisfy his feeling of continuing your good-will. Yes, stated
bluntly, be student enough to make your decisions without any com-
ment from anyone; if in doubt do not make the commitment.

The axiom is that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing, which
might be paraphrased to the concept that a little market success can
make a dunce out of a potential investor. Often a person checks market
fluctuations in newspapers, chart books or simply conversations with
others. Daily ranges of prices become potential gold mines, or a 50%
or more gain in the price of a stock over a period of weeks begins to
form the might-have-been profit. With some extra funds available some
ideas are gathered, or a ‘hot-tip’ is followed. Success in the form of a
good profit accrues. Now is the time to jump in again, usually in a larger
transaction. The project works nicely. But this time no grabbing a fair

--- PAGE 55 of 77 ---

[OCR] 98 MARKET CHARTS

profit; ‘inside’ information says the commitment will double, or triple,
or produce even greater gain. This person often hangs on too long;
then a reaction develops. Instead of getting out, the promise to get out
when a rally appears is substituted. The rally fails or falls short and
profits are eroded until all the commitment is in loss. In a stock the
result is a candidate for wall-paper; in a commodity the option expires
and a sale is mandatory unless delivery is accepted which is something
else.

Profitable speculation and investment in securities, or, in grain fu-
tures, is principally dependent on how comprehensive a grasp the opera-
tor has of the technical factors at work within the markets. All the luck
in the world never took the place of astute technical knowledge, plus
the ability to apply it. Without technical knowledge, in greater or lesser
degree, the market operator is only a gambler naively “playing the mar-
ket”; when, in consideration of the stakes involved, a small amount of
study would enable him to become an intelligent speculator.

With minor exceptions, all markets operate under basic natural laws
which govern supply and demand. A rhythmic ebb and flow is always
perceptible in the movements of prices. It is by gauging this motion that
the state of supply and demand is interpreted.

The purpose of this brochure is to present methods of interpreting the
important technical factors operating in markets. The method of ap-
proach and the manner of application coincides, and is a part of, those
ancient laws which form the foundation of modern science. They have
not, to my knowledge, ever been applied in this somewhat unique
manner to the charted movements of market prices. But, although the
application may seem new and much of the method of co-ordination
original, the entire foundation is as old as mathematics and philosophy.

At first inspection, the methods of procedure are likely to seem diffi-
cult to apply readily. Invariably this is the situation whenever a new
subject is first approached. However, I am confident that with a little
application anyone interested in markets will be gratified with the
results encountered.

All those who are interested in markets, whether as a vocation, or
avocation, cannot spend long periods of time, or invest considerable
money, for extensive economic research and study. Therefore the eco-
nomic specialist and the economic service organizations. An automobile
owner need not be an expert mechanic simply because he drives his car;
but, some knowledge of motor mechanics, together with a road map,
contributes to the success of any journey. So it is with market opera-
tions: anyone with any market interests, large or small, always finds the
relatively small time and trouble it takes to keep several market charts
an investment that pays large profits in both money and a better sense
of confidence. With greater confidence comes power and the initiative
ability for decisive, profitable action.

In the majority of instances commodity commitments are shunned.
When more money becomes available commitments in another stock or
a variety of stocks occurs which becomes a ‘portfolio’ when in reality a
mixed bunch of stocks are carried in Street name in an account. In

MARKET CHARTS 99

the course of years some become ‘winners’ and others ‘losers’; an avoca-
tion develops in a daily reading of the market page quotations.

Any person with the intention of finding a means of earning several
thousands of dollars a year as self-employed, or as an avocation, makes
careful preparation for the choice and then the operating know-how.
The smallest sort of retailing operation requires many elements to be-
come successful. The Small Business Administration, which often plans
and assists new business formations, reports four out of five fail in five
years. But emotionally anyone with interest in markets and a bit of
money believes winning is inevitable. If there is one salient and primary
fact to obey constantly, without the slightest deviation, and follow-
through with patience, it is to: ,

graph the Statistics of market action according to the means of
estimating time and price in daily and weekly price ranges. The
geometrical rules presented in the text cannot be compromised at

all. And adhere strictly to the market action revealed in the graphs
not rumors. ,

Years ago a long time client revealed he had been a floor

the Chicago Board of Trade for many years. Forced to aera 6
health problems he requested an address change to reach him at a small
village near Hudson’s Bay in Northern Canada. A year or so later he
reported intensive study of this graph method had intrigued him that he
was experimenting with 5 M bushels, mailing orders to Chicago by
regular mail, which sometimes took ten days for delivery. He said he
felt he was groping in the dark but handled it by stop-loss orders selected
from trend channels of the charts from the daily ranges picked up from
several radio stations with market news broadcasts. It was a few years
later he called on me to relate his losses, using the stops religiously, had
been minimal, while some very handsome profits had been realized by
acting on the potential swings and timing. This example leads me to
suggest, as I have done many times:

Invest your time in serious study and see you grasp how the appli-
cation of mathematical elements exhibits market activity. Only
then venture commitments and your capital, based only on con-
clusions drawn from your judgment.

You may feel these comments are rather presumptuous and naive
enough to imply you do not know better. Frankly, more than forty
a of experience have proven such reactions are a mistake. The more

‘apital you may venture the greater the hazard if i
sntt ignene then, you cast them aside

Like a nautical chart aids the navigators at sea to maintain objectives
and positions, market charts are of tremendous value in all market
transactions. Market charts are a graphic statistical view of price move-
ments in the market, sometimes from hour to hour, sometimes from

day to day, week to week, m i
veer Y; k, month to month, and even a view of year to

--- PAGE 56 of 77 ---

[OCR] 100 MARKET CHARTS

The problem of market activity is, in the final practical analysis, that
of prices. To profit we must buy lower than we sell. It is trite to point
out that a $100 stock is a bargain if it is about to move higher, while a
$2 stock is expensive if it is about to go down. But, most people realize
the greatest urge to buy just before a high is reached. The reason for
this psychology is obvious. But its basis lies in the lack of a grasp of
much of the technical perspective of the market itself.

So much material has been published on the importance of the eco-
nomic market charts during the last several years that market students
no longer view charts lightly. Yet, of all the methods I have examined
and used the geometrical approach is the only form that enables the
student to co-ordinate the fundamental laws of supply and demand, the
the element of time, the problem of resistance and objective and the
basis of price, with the astro-economic cyclical factors. ,

I am particularly indebted to my partner, Mr George E. Liggett, for
the basic practical application of the geometrical method to the problem
of market trends. His first application of phases of the method was used
in grain markets over a decade ago. These basic ideas were later
amplified and expanded by our associate, Mr Virgil Moore, now de-
ceased. Best known as The Moon Man in the grain markets, Virgil
Moore’s phenomenal forecasts will be long remembered. His interpreta-
tion of markets was based almost entirely on the various phases of the
geometrical method of charting.

The material which follows warrants careful study. Each phase of the
discussion is part of an ultimate whole. It is suggested:—that the
material is first read through carefully, without any attempt to apply the
principles laid down. Then a general perspective will be attained, which,
on second reading, will afford a quicker grasp of every step. Then apply
the method to a chart of current interest. With practice will come
facility, and as facility develops the many combinations and possibilities
of this method will be found.

CHAPTER ONE

GEOMETRICAL FUNDAMENTALS

The increasing use of charts, as a concise visual record of the fluctu-
ations of grain and security market prices, indicates their decided value
in speculative and investment operations. Particularly since the crash in
1929, a comprehensive grasp of the technical factors operating within
markets is recognized to be of importance, and in many ways supersede
such items as company earnings, overhead, fixed charges, credit and
indebtedness. Statistical items bear on problems of market prices, but
markets boom and crash before such news is available. Market charts
usually signal important changes. They are keys to the factors of supply
and demand which operate in every market. Market technicalities, as
registered on charts, take first place in all forms of market interpretation.

Over recent years, a great deal of material has been published on
methods of charting market statistics. Much of the material is of great
value; but, principally to illustrate the record of the past or to estimate
current technical conditions. Very little of the material is of the slightest
use in forecasting. But, as the means of “half a loaf” of observational
material is better than none, so even a meager chart is better than none.

The idea that all markets operate according to the natural laws of
supply and demand, in a rhythmic ebb and flow of price changes, is
rather difficult to grasp at first glance. It is simpler to take the view
that all prices are either “put up” or “pushed down” by several, or one,
“insiders.” But, like most half truths, such a premise simply distorts a
true grasp of markets. Prices are and have been “rigged,” but no
“rigger” or pool met success bucking the general trend. Markets move
in waves, ofttimes against the wishes of the majority or in spite of every
human effort to reverse the trend. The explanation of this condition
lies in those natural laws which are related, and are a part of, the
cyclical movements of mass psychology.

It is in an examination of these natural cycles that both individual
investors and speculators, and the managers of large funds can locate
the key to the many inexplicable market trends. Anything that is as
prosaic and practical as markets might appear to have little in common
with ancient philosophy, but market trends are simply an exact reflection
of the total hopes, fears and desires of great masses of people. Markets
are a part of living and so is philosophy.

Lack of space prevents an examination of the philosophical and psy-
chological backgrounds of markets. It is necessary, however, so as to
clarify phases of the geometrical method of charting, to refer to some
of the fundamental data.

Practically all modern “discoveries” are new applications, and new
variations, of things which have gone before. The extraordinary de-
velopments in modern atomic and electronic science were bequeathed

to us from ancient times. The observations of Thales of Miletus in

--- PAGE 57 of 77 ---

[OCR] 102 MARKET CHARTS

about 600 B.c., the work of Democritus in Ancient Greece, and Leucretius
in Ancient Rome, forms much basis for mathematical science in modern
times. Euclid, the father of geometry, and Pythagoras, who is credited
with raising mathematics to a science, presented tenets and observations
which have never been refuted down through centuries of research and
observation. Modern physics continues to view the principles of
Democritus as basic. As Tyndall quotes them, they are the foundation
of modern scientific thought. One principle is that “nothing happens by
chance. Every occurrence has its cause from which it follows by neces-
sity.”

Kepler’s doctrine of the concurrence of parallels at a single point at
infinity, and his principle of continuity in relation to the infinitely great,
relates to all geometrical figures. This thesis, as applied to natural law,
was amplified by Descartes and Newton. There is no reason why charts
of market statistics, if drawn according to geometrical design, cannot
be another application of these premises.

A Pythagorean proposition is that all things consist of three—the
trinity of proportions, or the arithmetical, geometrical and the harmoni-
cal. In market terms this is a clue to the relationship which exists be-
tween the angle of lift in charted prices; the prices, and the extent, or
time of market activity in days, weeks, months, etc.

Pythagoras taught further that there is a numerical relation in all
phenomena: the harmonic intervals of numbers with sounds; the rela-
tionship that the square of the hypotenuse, in a right handed triangle,
is equal to the sum of the squares on the other two sides; and more im-
portant, that angles of a sphere have specifically corresponding numbers,
which are sensitive to those angles in space, infinity and time. The lift
of charted prices does coincide with numbers at specific points in space,
corresponding to price and time. In these observations is the entire basis
of geometrical charts.

CHAPTER TWO

FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING

Most of the various methods of charting market prices ignore the
necessity for a constant balanced relationship between the elements of
time and price. Usually one unit of graph paper represents one unit of
time, such as a day or week, while two, five, or any convenient number
of units is taken to represent one cent or one dollar. The observation
seems to be that any unit relationship is satisfactory just as long as it is
carried throughout the chart. This is not the case.

; In geometrical charting the primary rule is; that there must be an
identical unit to represent both time and price. Ancient geometry was
principally concerned with geocentric and astronomic observation. It
discovered that all natural phenomena is, in some way, concerned with
circles, or cycles: such as the diurnal movement of the Earth on the axis
the 28 day cycle of the Moon around the Earth, and the cycles of the
planets around the Sun. The circle, or cycle, was the basis of geometry;
and, lines emanating from the axis of a circle, and the relationships of
these lines on the circumference of a circle, are the first tools of geometry.
They prove balance. :

The 360° of a complete circle contain several cardinal, and many
lesser, points. The major cardinal points are those which mark the four
major squares of every circle, and those which mark the three major
triangles of every circle. Fractional harmonics form the lesser.

A perfect cross of two lines, drawn through the center of a circle indi-
cates the four cardinal points on the circumference; and, coincides with

90°

180° o°

270°

--- PAGE 58 of 77 ---

[OCR] 104 MARKET CHARTS

the four seasons of the year. A cross divides a circle into four equal
parts, each part 90° or one half of 180° and a quarter of 360°. This 90°
angle is the “square” unit, or the symbol of the meeting of force and re-
sistance. Two 90° angles are the equal of 180°, or, the symbol of op-
position and alternative. The point of 0° is always the beginning or
place of origin, and the positive pole, while 180° is the negative pole; one
is Self and the other Not-Self, the start and the finish, the top and the
bottom. All degrees which divide 90 equally are related to “resistance.”

There is another set of major critical points within a circle; from the
major triangles. Where the first division was one of quarters or 90°
angles, the second division is of 120° angles or thirds. These two di-
visions form the basis of all angles and division, of not only circles, but of

120° o°

240°

any unit, viz, 4, %, %, %e, ete are all harmonical divisions of 90°,
while 14, %, 4. etc, are the harmonical divisions of 120°. The 120°
angles, and their harmonical divisions, relate to co-ordination, harmony
and balance. They are not only unifying but bring adjustment which
relates to the ideal. So in zodiacal sign relationships the major triangles,
or trines, tie earth to earth, air to air, fire to fire and water to water. In
market charts, these units mark areas of market adjustment or areas and
periods of consolidation in time and price.

The co-ordination of nature with these basic angles shows up in a
variety of ways. Under microscopic examination molecules of copper,
iron and quartz follow the major angles. Snowflakes, in myriads of major
angle forms, illustrate the major angles. One twelfth of a year is one
month; one twenty fourth of a day is one hour; one hour-sixty minutes:
all are divisions of the trine, or 120° angle. Similar connection with the
square or 90° angle can be noted. As Laotze said, everything exists for a

FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING 105

Purpose, and the virtue of everything is in its use; which can include
geometry and market charts.

The sketch below illustrates the necessity for a market chart unit
of time—days, months, etc—always being equal to the unit of price—
one dollar or one cent. There is balance when A-B is equal to C-D. If
AB is one unit of price then C-D must be one unit of time. There is an
immediate unbalance if A-B is one unit and C-D is three, or five, or ten
units of measure. Most important rule of geometrical charting—that the
arithmetical unit of measuring time and price shall always be identical.

Lack of space makes it impossible to offer illustrations why it is also
necessary to show every unit of calendar time on all charts, instead of
following the popular practice of simply indicating market days. Usually

IN
NEY

chartists provide no space for Sundays and those intervals when the
markets are closed. Yet the student of economic cycles realizes that Sun-
days and holidays may halt the completion of such economic transac-
tions as market turnover, but they do not halt a cycle of time. The forces
which result in market statistics are operative 7 days a week and 24
hours a day. Forces behind the movement of money are not halted be-
cause most of the banks of the country are closed a large part of each
24 hours. So it is with market forces, they operate constantly. So charts
must show calendar time, not market time. ;

preparing charts it does not matter what uni
selected, just as long as it is followed throughout the chert, Use any a ae
of paper from the 20 by 20 squares to the inch to the 1 by 1 square to the
ine The only point is to maintain a balance of units.

‘or general purposes the readily available gr
squares to the inch is convenient to handle for ae Senos

--- PAGE 59 of 77 ---

[OCR] 106 MARKET CHARTS

Averages. In grain charts use one unit to indicate one cent, and one
equal unit to indicate time—which will be a day, a week, month, or year,
depending on the type of chart. On the 8 by 8 paper ¥% inch will present
one cent on the vertical scale, and ¥% inch will mark a unit of time of the
horizontal scale.

In security price charts % inch should represent one dollar on the
vertical scale, and 1% inch represent one unit of time on the horizontal
scale.

It is profitable to carry charts on the daily, weekly, monthly & yearly
range of prices of every stock or grain option in which there is any in-
terest. For most purposes, however, the charts can be limited to one
daily and one weekly. Do not load up with a great number of charts.
One hour of interpretation is better than ten hours of marking up high,
low and close statistics. Enter the calendar days—or weeks—across the
top from left to right, and the price range in the left, hand margin from
bottom to top. Begin all charts from the last major high or low. A space
to provide for volume should be provided along the bottom of each chart.

CHAPTER THREE

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND

After a set of daily and weekly charts has been laid out, with a range
started from either the last major high or major low, the next step is to
enter the major angles. We want to estimate all the probable elements
of the present and future price range, resistances, and price and time ob-
jectives. For illustrative purposes let us begin at the last ma jor low. This
low is, geometrically, the axis or center of a circle. However, price ac-
tivity on a chart moves upward and to the right of the axis, so we can
only use 90° or one quarter of the circle, illustrated in the sketch below.
From point A a line is drawn to equal and parallel F-B, and then the

angle AEB is entered so as to duplicate AFB, and form the base figure
for our chart form. The extension on CD is the result. Literally, C is the
same as F—the axis of the circle and the point of the major chart low
(when inverted, it is the major high).

According to the Pythagorean observation the degree units (angles)
of a circle have numerical co-ordinates which are harmonical. In this
instance the 90° from A to B represents 90 units of measure from A to
F, F to B, B to E, etc. And it follows that the extended square on base
line C-D must also be measured by 90 units on each of its sides. This
square of 90 is our base unit in all market charts, except with minor ex-
ceptions in the daily.

On the opposite page are two sketches which illustrate the important
angles of a circle and also the 90° segment. One indicates the manner in

--- PAGE 60 of 77 ---

[OCR] 108 MARKET CHARTS

which the harmonics of 90° form four perfect squares in every circle.
The other illustrates how four triangles form on the major harmonics of
120°. From the axis these points form angles of 90, 45, 2244, 11%, 671%,
etc in the squares, and 75, 60, 30, 15, 45, 90, etc in the trines. Note that
90 and 45 appear in both groups, indicating they are doubly strong.

Keep the entire gamut of these critical degree points of all the groups
in mind, not only when computing time by days, or weeks, but in com-
puting price and resistance. Think in numbers, rather than angles.

The points which are harmonical with the square of 90 signal re-
sistance, and points of trend reversal, as their connecting lines extend to

247%° 292°
270°

axial highs or lows. In time measure all harmonical points of 90, or from
0 to 360, represent days, weeks or months of resistance, from a major
high or low. This coincides with the 88, 44 and 22 day cycles of Mercury,
viz, 90, 45 and 22%, etc.

In other words, in measuring time count from a major hi or low in
calendar days, weeks or months for critical areas in time.

The points harmonical with the trines also mark important areas in
time and price, but the levels they indicate are related to that type of
market action that accompanies periods of adjustment or consolidation.

The critical points of the two groups—square and trine—operate from
0, and also from any beginning, viz, a major low at 11 would locate the
45 point at 56 (11 plus 45) and not 45.

The trine points tie up in the approximate 365 day cycle of the Sun

which marks 1 year.
The application of these critical points is now used in entering the

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 109

lines from axial tops and bottoms in the square of 90. (See Plate 1 on
the opposite page). The sensitive degree points are tabulated on the
top and side margin of the graph. The lines from point X, the axial
center, and also our theoretical low point, form angles which are not
measured on the circumference 0—0, but on the sides 0-90, and 90-0.
This is our foundation, a complete unit which is to be applied to ever ;
er and inverted, to every high on our charts. Y
e strongest angle is 90°, coinciding with the vertical line

top 0. The next strongest is the 45° angle, formed from the ee

0, or the line of 90. Points E and E are also 45, and are points of the

square within the square. As all the lines from the axis X are followed
note how cross lines coincide with critical degree points. X-D is the 30
point line (measured across the top). On the circumference 0-0 is an
angle of 7114°. Note the minor resistance at 3314 points, and the major
7s at 671, on the graph. In time (from left to right) these points
are 1 4 days or weeks, and 22144. So it can be readily observed that the
as — postulate proves out: that there is a harmonical relation-
ip etween angles and numbers, which, in terms of market charts, ti
up the “lift” of the price structure with time and resistance. vues
. In order to avoid the inconvenient and cumbersome necessit of ent
ing the full square of 90 at every important top and bottom thet 1 _
terializes on our charts, a precision detail colluloid protractor is used and
the critical Paints translated into angles by means of those tables which
ae entered a the bottom of Plate 1. Most drawing and draftsmen sup-

--- PAGE 61 of 77 ---

[OCR] MARKET CHARTS

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 111
° 10 2030 40. 50 60 70 _ 80 90
PLATE 3 |
106 85
|
8
U.S. STEEL WEEKLY 80
JULY 1932 fo MARCH 1934 12
96 + 75
u 70
86 + e 65
- 3 +16 60
76 +— t 55
9
; 5 50
66 i { i D 45
, 40
t 35
«| — i!
30
wo 46 rf! 25
e
3 1120
8% 18
Zz
ws E 10
9g
& 26 4 S
A

A — July ’32 low
B —Sept’32 high
C —Feb ’33 low

4~- Horizontal from low C
5 — Horizontal from high D
6-—71%4° 30 spaces (7)

110
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 30.0
A \B D F G
iS
80
_ 70
G
60
F
50
E
40
iT {
30
D
C4 20
Z | B=Hio
A
x
Top of Graph to Right Right Margin Upward 5
X-A 55spaces 86%4° X—-A 55% spaces 3%"
X-B11% “ 822° X-B11% “ 7,
K-C22% “ 75° X-C22% “ 15° 5
X-D30 “ T1%4° X-D30 “ 18%
X-E 45 “ 6334° X-E 45 “ 26%4°
X-F 60 “ 56%4° X-F 60 “ 3334°
X-G67% “ 54° X-G67% “ 37°

Another method, which is even simpler after a little practice, is to use

the scale of measurement below. Count from the axis X upward, or to

the right, as the case may be.

Vertical Scale (Right Margin)
55% spaces—l16 over lup

11%
15
22¥2
30
45
60
“67%

“

—16
—12
—16
—12
—8
—12
—16

NOAADANN

“

D- July ’33 high 7-90° onC
E—-Oct ’33 low 8-45°onA
1 — Axis ’32 low 9-45° onc

2 —71%° 30 spaces 10 — 1834 ° 30 spaces (B)
3 —Horizontal from top B 11-1834° 30 spaces (C)
12 -6334° — 45 spaces (C)

Horizontal Scale (Top Margin)

55% spaces— lover 16up

11%

“«

“

=
—2
—4
—4
—4
— 8
—12

“
“
“
«“
“
“

“

16 «
12 «
16 «
12 «
8 «
12 «
16 «

We can now enter the important lines on the weekly charts. For il-
lustration note the weekly range chart of U. S. Steel! Common on the
opposite page (Plate 3). The first procedure was to align the axis, of the
square of 90, to the low point of July 1932 at A. As soon as this is done
the price is tabulated in the left hand margin, and the major lines of 90,
or 45° angles, are entered at 0, through the exact center at 1, and from
A to 90. Then the top and side points of 30 and 45 are entered. For
simplification all but the top 30 is deleted on this Plate 3. These lines
illustrated that the major resistances in price were, on the upside, where
the major lines cross at 1, or $64 in price and 45 weeks in time, and, on
line 2 at 511% (the top scale of 30 points added to the low of 21% at A).

--- PAGE 62 of 77 ---

[OCR] 112 MARKET CHARTS

As the weekly range of prices rose along this line no other lines were
necessary until the September 1932 top at B.

As soon as the top was made the horizontal top line at 3 is entered.
Then the line 10 through B and 1 was drawn. Then a line parallel to 2 is
entered through 1, and the 45° angle down from B. Just as long as a
weekly or monthly range stays above the line of 90 it is bullish; and,
conversely, as long as the range travels under the line of downward 90 it
is bearish. The line of 90 from B was not penetrated until the point of
convergence of vertical 7 and parallel 6 was reached at C. At C then, a
new base line 4 was drawn; line 11 is entered parallel to line 10; and, the
line of 90 at 9 entered. This signalled that the weekly range holding
above line 11 was bullish & if it held above the 90 line 9 the objective
was; first, the high 10 line, and, a price within “orb” of point 1 or $64.
The high materialized at the high line point D, just under $68, in July
1933. Note:—line 12, drawn from C through D, strikes at 76 on the top
margin and scale, 44 points added to the February 1933 low at point C
are 671 and the July 1933 high on U.S. Steel.

Study Plate 3 carefully; and, with the material already discussed, set
up charts for ranges over the past. Facility in locating the manner in
which resistance points and objectives can be computed, in advance, will
soon develop. The more points of crossing at one week, or at one price,
the more important is that point. Always be generous with lines. Have
more than you need, rather than too few. Always carry all the major
lines from every important top and bottom. Begin with the line of 90,
or 45°, and when a line is entered above this major line always enter a
line below, at the same degree point.

A great number of different combinations of angles and lines can be
applied to every chart. If the fundamentals already discussed have been
thoroughly grasped each combination can be worked out to a logical
conclusion.

Study the manner in which duplications recur on all charts, and how
when one square of 90 is completed the succeeding square will develop
duplications, not in exact prices but in geometrical form and reflected by
the price ranges. Note that parallelograms and forms of squares and
rectangles prove out, as complete moves of prices occur. A major ob-
jective can be anticipated by drawing lines from double and triple tops
and bottoms. When making such extensions run the 90 point line up-
ward from the first bottom, then the 45 top point line on the second bot-
tom, and if there is a third bottom, enter the 2214 point (top) from it.
Where these lines converge will mark a major point of resistance in time
and price. Conversely, from tops, the lines go down.

Keep in mind that the sensitive angles coincide with critical points of
prices. For instance, if a stock makes a major low of ten dollars per share
you can immediately outline its major and minor resistance points in
days, weeks and months, and in price. Simply take the major degrees
such as 15, 30, 45, 90, 105, 135, etc, and add to the major low; viz, 10
plus 15 equals 25, 45 and 10 equals 55, etc. Count the days and weeks
in the same manner.

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 113

In entering lines and angles on the charts always strive for geometrical
balance. When the 90 point line is drawn from a low, balance it with a
90 point line from a top and note where they cross. If a 90 point line,
or any other, is drawn from a bottom, parallel it by the same point line
UPWARD from the preceding top. The three sides of a parallelogram—
the two parallels for two sides and a line extending from the top to the
bottom—give clues to when and where a move in prices will be com-
pleted. In the same manner, watch for duplications in time and price in
the ends of the parallelogram. This “boxing” of the price range is very
effective to locate when a move is completed, and to aid in finding ob-
jectives and price levels. They are most effective on the weekly charts,
but should be looked for in the daily charts also.

Above all, recognize the necessity for flexibility in entering lines. Al-
ways be ready to apply variations of the basic rules.

--- PAGE 63 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER FOUR

THE DAILY CHART

Where the weekly, monthly and yearly charts of market prices—all
set up according to the illustration used for the weekly chart of U. S.
Steel, in the preceding chapter—are the foundations for interpretation
of the major trends, probable tops and bottoms, plus points where turns
are probable, the daily chart gives a closer and more enlarged view of the
minor trend. In practice one is a supplement to the other; the weekly
and monthly charts indicating the long trend perspective, and the daily
charts the minor trends.

Plate 2 shows the daily range of the Dow Jones Industrials and the
Dow Jones Rails from January Ist, 1933 to September 29th, 1933. A
supplementary aid—a one point, Point and Figure chart of the Indus-
trials—is also included.

Note that the rule of one day for one dollar is followed. Also, every
calendar day occupies one unit—Sundays, holidays and, periods of
closed markets, are all shown. The square of 90 and the line of 90 are
not used, except in the minor trends. In the daily charts we confine our-
selves to actual trend lines on the highs and lows.

The tops A and B are the horizontal base lines. Until those lines were
broken at C the market was not in a bullish trend; as, even though
strong implications had developed on the weekly and monthly charts,
the confirmation on the daily chart was not complete. Then when A and
B were penetrated, base lines were entered across preceding lows shown
at 1 and 2. Note how these bottom or low lines held through the re-
peated attacks in prices at 3, 4, 5, and 6 on both Averages, indicating
that the trend was fundamentally bullish up until the apex of the major
triangulation, D-E-3, was broken out of at E.

On the intermediate trend of the Industrials, from C, through D, count
the days in terms of our observations of critical points, viz, 534, 7%,
11%, 15, etc. As soon as the 90 point and day passed, resistance became
increasingly heavy. On the major point of 105, or day, an important high
was made. Then go back and count the days from the time the resistance
across A and B was broken at C, and apply the same critical points. The
top in prices occurred on the 90th day following the breakout at C.
Apply this principle throughout all types of charts.

Always keep the geometrical fundamental of balance, plus the har-
monical relationship between degrees, points, days, months, and weeks,
in the forefront of attention. At the same time be prepared to allow an
“orb” of “aspect.” That is, allow for discrepancies in all computations up
to about 212%. An objective of 90 days or 90 dollars can carry a range
of points 242% higher or 212% lower. 242% of 90 is 2%, so the range
would be from 874% days, weeks, points or dollars, to 9214 days, weeks,
points or dollars. Apply this general percentage “orb” to all computed
objectives and resistance points.

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS

JULY 18

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS

Q
i

One day and cne c

DOW JONES RAILS

RANGE JAN. Ist to SEPT. 29-1933

Int

one p'

a

1

Hee HE a nie

a

A
gat PP pk ee

AIAN

MILLIONS OF SHARES:

--- PAGE 64 of 77 ---

[OCR] 116 MARKET CHARTS

In the penetration of trend lines or previous highs and previous lows
on the daily charts, the percentage rule can generally be ignored for the
“one point” rule. This rule applies to all chart points not computed on
the degree points of the major angles, such as trend line points, highs and
lows, the applications of the Dow Theory, and in interpretation by the
Point and Figure method. The rule is, allow a one full point penetra-
tion before accepting the implication as definite.

The volume of transactions is important. It should be charted on all
stock charts and on the charts of the Averages, and if possible, on grain
charts. In Plate 2 the volume of transactions is entered on the bottom of
the chart, with daily vertical lines indicating the number of transactions
in millions of shares. Follow through this chart of the volume to see how
the volume increased as the trend line on the lower side of the channel
was broken near D. As point 3 was approached, volume decreased; the
pressure of liquidation was passing, with prices preparing for a recovery.
But as volume did not materially increase on the upside movement
along the succeeding higher bottoms at 4, 5, and 6, the bullish trend was
not convincing.

Note that all minor tops and bottoms carry an upward or downward
line of 90, or 45° angle line. As long as the minor trend holds above this
line the minor trend continues unchanged. When this angle is broken a
reversal or consolidation occurred. Use of this angle on every daily chart
is of tremendous value in short term trading operations. But remember,
like the major trend lines across tops and bottoms, it only is effective on
charts which follow the arithmetical balance of one unit for time and one
unit for price; and, that every calendar day is provided for and shown
on the chart.

As with the weekly charts, experiment and test charts of past action
with these methods.

CHAPTER FIVE

SUPPLEMENTARY HELPS

If every investor and trader will keep an up to date and carefully
drawn set of charts, for every grain option and stock in which he is in-
terested, he will be amply repaid in greater profits, plus a new basis of
confidence. Such charts, used in conjunction with a subscription to a
technical and advisory service, will enable him to not only maintain a
market perspective, but help him to crystallize his observations into
profitable action. The better a trader understands his reasons for making
commitments, the greater are his chances to attain profitable results.

As a minimum, use a weekly and a daily chart for every grain option,
and stock, in which you are interested. Then, if possible, supplement the
individual charts with charts of the Rails and the Industrials in stocks;
and in grains, carry a corn option if you are trading in wheat, or wheat if
you are interested in corn. The Dow Theory where the primary and
intermediate trends are involved, is very useful in not only stocks, but in
grains. In stocks, use the daily Industrial Averages, and the daily Rail
Averages as compiled by Dow, Jones and Company. In grain, use the
option of wheat to replace the Industrials, and the option of corn to re-
place the Rails. Always use options which run out in the same month—
like September wheat and September corn. The Chicago Board of Trade
options work quite effectively in this form.

The Dow Theory is a method of market interpretation developed by
the late Charles H. Dow of the Wall Street Journal. It was later ampli-
fied by William P. Hamilton. In recent years there has been a pro-
nounced tendency to read certain implications into the theory which it
was never designed to convey. Basically, the Dow Theory is a very use-
ful method of interpreting the intermediate and primary trends only.
Its use in minor trends is of little value. For everything that may be im-
plied under the Dow Theory study the book by Robert Rhea, entitled
“The Dow Theory.”

One of the oldest professional forms of charting market prices is the
Point and Figure Method. It is an excellent supplement to the geo-
metrical charts, when the chartist wants a separate check on the im-
portant levels of accumulation and distribution, resistance points and the
main trend. The method pays no attention to calendar or market time;
it is not concerned with the volume of transactions. Its entire purpose is
to follow the price movement. The upper left hand portion of the chart
comprising Plate 2 illustrates a one point chart which was compiled by
the Point and Figure Method. It will be noted that units of price less
than one, such as the fractions of ¥% and 1%, are ignored. In compiling
these charts the general rule is that full point changes are entered on the
chart by x marks. Starting on a day a stock moves between 1114 and
12%, the figure to be entered is an x at 12—the only full figure in that
range. Then, if the stock advanced through 13, into 14, an x is entered

--- PAGE 65 of 77 ---

[OCR] 118 MARKET CHARTS

in the space above the x at 12. If, however, the stock price churns be-
tween 1214 and 1334, and then breaks through the full figure 13, move
to the next vertical column of squares to the right and enter x at 13. The
data for these changes may be taken from quotations in newspaper fi-
nancial pages, or from the daily range charts; but the only satisfactory
source, so as to follow all fluctuations, is to take the data directly from
the tape.

Refinements of this method are used in a great many ways. There are
one point charts, half point, quarter point, three point and the five point.
All forms have their own particular use and contribute to market in-
terpretation as a whole. Considerable data on this method is available.

Various mathematical forms have been developed to produce auto-
matic “buy” and “sell” signals. The most noteworthy of these are labeled
“running average” devices. These may consist of two lines running on an
arithmetical chart. As long as the same trend continues these lines hold a
parallel position to each other. At a major turning point the one line
will cross the other. A popular method of computing such a pair of lines
is to use the daily close for one line and the average of the closes of the
preceding week for the other line. Sometimes the average of the pre-
ceding highs, or lows, are run on one of the lines, or a third, and some-
times even a fourth line is added, each line carrying various combina-
tions of figures.

But, to supplement the geometrical method of charting there is one
basic method which overshadows all others in usefulness. It lies in a
close study of the tape itself. On the tape is recorded every transaction
in the market, with every fluctuation in price, every item of volume; or,
in brief, a completely detailed moving picture of each stock and the
market as a whole. Watching every movement of price and volume on
the tape, without retaining the perspective of trends revealed in the
charts, is a danger few observers can guard against.

Section IV

--- PAGE 66 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER ONE

FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER

The purpose is to try to define or at least make an estimate of the
probable future trend of speculative markets, notably stocks and com-
modities. Is the major or long term trend upward or down? It was up-
ward in stock market averages from 1932 to 1965, approximately 33
years, but something else in terms of individual stocks then and since.
And this basic upward trend actually was a series of intermediate up-
ward and intermediate trends constantly making marks on affairs. For
example, from 1932 to 1937 was an intermediate upward trend; from
1937 to 1942 was an intermediate downward trend. And within all in-
termediate trends, whether upward or down, are constant minor trends.
One of the initial steps in developing estimates of trend prospects is to
define precisely what these trends may be.

It is amazing the ignorance which prevails on these elementary fac-
tors. Most brokerage salesmen, and there are exceptions, seem bred to
markets pointing upward in their incessant search for orders to buy
something. Declines are admitted but always as temporary setbacks.
In turn, most of their customers think always somewhere the trend will
be upward. An old wheeze is that security prices always eventually go
higher and compare the Dow-Jones Averages of 1897 with those of
recent years. One quick answer is that Pennsylvania Railroad in the
days of World War I was the final word as a deluxe, income paying blue
chip of blue chips. To soften what may seem to be a put-down note that
Haloid, the poor and struggling cousin of Rochester photo industry
moguls for many years now has grown to some stature as Xerox. The
trend must be defined by the position of the Averages and the issues
being scrutinzed as possible candidates for purchase or sale.

An intermediate trend usually has five phases, three in its direction
and two corrective minor trends. Thus, the intermediate upward trend
usually has a relatively small initial upward phase such as July to Sep-
tember 1932 on the Industrials, a minor downtrend of varying length
such as September 1932 to February 1933. The second upswing minor
trend follows as from March to July 1933. The second setback carried
to near the end of 1934 from which the third upswing and blow-off phase
made a peak in early 1937. It is almost axiomatic that the third phase of
an intermediate uptrend is the largest and longest because by that time
people feel the future profit prospects are both unlimited and assured.
As one technician often said when people demand stocks in a third up-
ward phase he always was happy to please them and sell out all the
stocks he owned.

The years 1973 and 1974 marked the most devastating market losses
than any two year interval since the early 1930’s. Vicious declines oc-
curred in 1966 and 1969 in terms of the popular Averages but com-
parable rebounds followed rather quickly to restore preceding values

--- PAGE 67 of 77 ---

[OCR] 122 SECTION IV

and the Over-The-Counter market did not collapse. In our annual trend
projection estimates issued and copyright in December annually for the
forthcoming year cyclic estimates again proved themselves. For ex-
ample, 1974, at the end of 1973, was a chaotic prospect after February
was out of the way, as Jupiter would begin to move toward a square of
Saturn. And in April the weak trine of retrograde Uranus to Saturn
would begin to shift to a square. These are bearish elements intensified
by the Node moving through Sagittarius all year, the opposition area to
our Gemini critical point. Forecast projection: firming early in the year,
late May peak, September low.

One of our market turning points, in the relation of Jupiter and Saturn
at 126°, converged in early February in a weak manner, because Saturn
was retrograde at the time; again in late September when Saturn was
direct but Jupiter was retrograde; and again in December. At the latter,
Jupiter was direct but Saturn again was retrograde. However, very sig-
nificant factors were included in the December data: Uranus had moved
into Scorpio and was working toward a trine with Saturn, Jupiter was
nearing a trine to Saturn which also would be a trine to Uranus; and, the
opposition of the Node to 8° Gemini culminated late in the month. With
the stock market at the lowest point since the panic of 1962, and within
shouting distance of the highs of 1956, it was the framework of a classic
low.

The 1974 market trends confirmed the 1932-1965 upward major
trend had reversed to a major downward trend in its first decline made
in 1966. However, an intermediate upward trend correction should fol-
low, and be of considerable magnitude in prices and quite lengthy in
time.

In the projected trend estimates for 1975, issued and copyright in De-
cember 1974, a peak was anticipated May 29th when a strong square of
Jupiter and Saturn occurred, and repeated in late June and again in
mid-July. By December, and Jupiter turning direct the 11th, the up-
swing was projected to resume.

Recall in the foregoing that the September through December 1974
cyclic data was turning into bullish. Meantime the technical structure
of the stock market had developed that the primary or major trend, in
terms of the Averages, was down. The widely acclaimed 1973 high on
the Industrials, which never had been confirmed by the Transport
Average, had been a false move which had collapsed into the panic con-
dition of 1973 and 1974. What caused the panic? Of course there are a
multitude of reasons and explanations are comfortable,

But We Are Going to Ignore Everything But Astro-Cycle Timing

and then look for confirmatory action in the trend and market ampli-
tude.

So charts of market statistics are the next step in putting it together.
If the section on setting up the geometrical chart form needed has been
quickly read and not carefully studied step by step retracement may be
irksome at the moment. Here is a simplified explanation. That it may

FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER 123

seem repetitious may clarify some factors which may have been hazy.
The application is for the more prevalent daily chart of price ranges, to
aid in grasping the method.

The elements which mark the transaction of any exchange, in indi-
vidual stocks and in any commodity, are the end result of an auction re-
sulting from many sources. The elements which motivate these sources
are operating twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, although
the auction market may operate for only a few hours a day in a five day
week. In order to visualize some of the actual phenomena of market
trends and the waves of activity a daily chart must show every calendar
day. Where Saturday, Sundays and holidays occur blank spaces show in
the chart.

The second fundamental is to recognize the immutable law that a
visual record of price trends accepts the premise that time and space,
or amplitude and distance, must be equal. Thus, if one space represent-
ing one calendar day in the horizontal plane is one-eighth inch, then one-
eighth inch is mandatory in the vertical plane to represent one unit of
price. The unit prices most commonly accepted are one dollar for one
point in a stock, one cent as one point in grain, etc.

The two initial fundamental premises are: on daily price range charts
all calendar days must be shown, and the width of the space comprising
a calendar day is exactly the same as the height of the space representing
the unit price.

--- PAGE 68 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER TWO

TIMING ELEMENTS

As a market tool, charts afford an interpretive insight which is culti-
vated by experience. In themselves charts do not forecast but market
action revealed by charts presents means of interpretation to the ob-
server from which tentative projections may be formulated.

Means of estimating the duration in time and the objective in price of
a market trend, whether upward or downward, is the goal of market
analysis. The multitude of factors involved have so few absolutes on
which to base judgment the process is more an interpretive art than a
science. However, if market charting is adapted to those mathematical
laws of trigonometric relations which apply to all problems of time and
space many factors of science may be applied, and interpretation forti-
fied.

Trigonometry involves angles. An angle is generated by two lines, one
stationary and the other rotating. In market charts the stationary line
becomes a major high, or conversely a major low. Angles are measured
in radians or in degrees. A circle divides into 360 degrees; when it is
divided by two lines at right angles through the center the angle at the
center is 90 degrees. The circle then has four quadrants of 90 degrees
each. Note that the angle defines the number of degrees. If a radius of a
circle is bent on the circumference of the same circle the subsequent arc
marks an angle termed a radian. A radian is 57° 17’ 45” or 57.2958°; pi
is 3.14159, so pi radians is 180°; pi/2 radians is 90°; pi/3 radians 60°
The harmonic divisions of 90° are 2 or 45°, % or 224° and ¥% 11%4°.
The harmonic divisions of 60° are %% or 30°; % or 15° and ¥% 742°. In
our market charting we view these degrees as angles of the amplitude of
trends of prices and the distance velocity in time and price. Thus there is
the velocity of either an advance or decline in prices defined in degrees,
and in addition there is a harmonic relation in the angle of velocity to the
waves of prices. A rise which adheres to a trend channel of approxi-
mately 15° degrees reveals price resistances at 15, 742, 3%. To il-
lustrate: a stock in a 15° uptrend has an upside breakout at 35, ma-
jor resistance will be at 35 plus 15 and lesser resistance at 35 plus
3% and 35 plus 744, as long as the 15° uptrend channel remains in-
tact. Another stock is priced at 20 where a series of minor highs have
occurred and it leaps out of this established resistance at an apparent
45° uptrend angle. Probable resistance to the new advance will appear
at 20 plus 45, 2214, 11% and 55%. This works out as 20 plus 55% or
255, 20 plus 11% or 31%, etc.

The velocity of prices changes forms one insight to the power of the
momentum which eventuates probable exhaustion. A directed magni-
tude of this velocity then can be estimated by vectors. A major vector
has within it a series of smaller vectors which often differ in magnitude
and direction. And a charted market trend of daily prices has a major or

TIMING ELEMENTS 125

general trend within which are a number of minor trends of varying
magnitude and duration. In charting the applications to use are polar
coordinates where a vector is defined by a magnitude and an angle, or
vectorial angle. In this usage the 90° harmonics apply to the angle of
the price trend with its time factor of days to reach exhaustion, and 60°
harmonics apply to price resistance.

Tentative market price objectives which form subsequent resistance
areas often are revealed in advance by imposing triangles of varying
vectorial values. An example is to project one angle on the low close day
in prices and a lesser angle on the first preceding low close day; the
crossing will estimate exhaustion in time and price. To illustrate—the
Dow Jones Industrials have an average velocity of 45° or one-half of
pi/2 radians. The associated price resistance factor then is 60°.

Below are tracings of a daily chart of the Dow Jones Industrials from
March through June 1960. In Chart A the day of the highest close is at
(B); the highest preceding close day is at (A). As soon as the setback
from (B) brought a close below the previous low close day (X) a
tentative projection was entered. A 45° angle was entered at (A) and
a 60° angle projected from (B). The convergence at (C) indicated a
potential base between 600 and 605 the first week in May.

|
i 1A B |
635 FH |, = | tp to =
i jt ra 1
630 f { b | : {
EDN i
625 fs \ t = 665
is | | i H | || ee i|
620 mn { oot 1 | on he
MT fu 1
61s 7 4 -
| I r iI i
i ; ' _| | MUS
610 | 1 t | “so
i 1
foo c TT ons
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS (Chart A)
—__I 640
| LA ‘ | |
wt NE —t 4635
i : || |
—}— : = ——} T ~ 830
1 wae
ae LIN | |
} ca | +4 625
a —| t t } 620
| | i | wo) i|
4 {I 615
a! AA HL |
if t TT TT At 610
| , ai |
nt t 1 | J 608
i | l|/e
t t — —— 600
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS (Chart 8) 88 { |
27 3 10 7 24 1 ry 18 22 29 5 12 19
April 1960 May 1960 June 1960

--- PAGE 69 of 77 ---

[OCR] 126 SECTION IV

Price Chart B duplicates Chart A until after mid-April. When the
early May projection was confirmed, when the close (E) was above the
preceding high close (D) the low close day at (BB) was imposed with
an upward 60° angle and at the preceding low close day (AA) a 45°
angle was entered. This presented a tentative possibility of the Indus-
trials achieving the 660 level in early June. Note also the arithmetical
resistance approximations; for example, from (BB) the first surge was
598 plus 15, the second surge 598 plus 30; the eventual top approxi-
mately 598 plus 60.

In practice the precision of the foregoing is often upset by unusual
surges of mass psychology. As a defense several measures are constantly
used to fortify judgment and guard against changes in the apparent
normal of market action.

Refer briefly to the circle in quarters with its quarter square on page
and then the subsequent page depicting the full 90° square with the
more critical angles. The daily application has been outlined leading up
to the significant applications.

Often there is a search for repeating cycles by statistics and then
there is the constant reference to the economic cycle. The former is the
often heard 9 year cycle, the 11 year cycle, the 18 year cycle or the 54
year cycle. Recently the unprecedent extreme low of 1976 in Sun-Spot
activity, and its wide range of effects related to weather, harvests and
humans, has relegated its average 11 years cycle to prospects of a major
cycle of 80 to 90 years. It has been a wide search for statistical cycles
with indifferent success.

The latter or what is labeled the economic cycle avoids being trapped
by a time factor. Conveniently it is often a theory. A prospective de-
mand such as housing is pump-primed with capital and credit. Contracts
are let and in a certain period of interval business supplying materials
expand as producers convert raw materials. So it goes, one factor sprout-
ing another, until the “cycle” runs its course; it might be a brief year or
two, or it might run for many years. Its greatest problem is a trail of bad
judgment. Statistical cycles constantly skate the surface trying to av-
erage a factor from past statistical ebb and flow. Astro-cycles have been
carefully rejected as faulty to start with, or in more recent years since
the puritan mystique has lost its thought-control powers, most research
has been confined to five or ten years of research effort, and then rushing
into print. The factors become overwhelming by their large number in-
stead of being sifted down to potent and workable simplicity. Certainly
it has faults of omission.

Someone claims astro-cycles all converge to the same position once
briefly only every 26,000 years. It may be true but the point is no two
cycles are exactly alike. Jupiter has its 12 year cycle but in the 12 years
its apparent retrograde and forward paths aspect other astro-cycles with-
out simple statistical repetition. And markets reflect timing factors
which are not precisely symmetrical as mathematical cycles, a statement
which seems elementary but is noted here because a degree of elasticity

TIMING ELEMENTS 127

has to be accepted. A market may be projected to top out at noon Mon-
day and doesn’t; it tops out late Tuesday, etc.
The Earth takes 365 days to go around the Sun, and the Moon makes

JULY JAN. JUNE
1974 OCT. 1975 APR. JULY» OCT. 1976 APR. JULY
230 f
| DOW-JONES TRANSPORT AVERAGE
220f-—— WEEKLY PRICE RANGES in
| JULY 1974 - SEPT. 1976
210 i | [
200 J (lo) |
| |
190 . +
4S 6) ©
.
ian |
170 | 2 if
I, <1 Nt _
Ch a”"
| (4) (7)
150 H+ —— oo
| L
anil (8)
140 ite
| a)
130 | —+ ~ =
ipo
|
120}-- ar —

13 revolutions around the Earth in 364 days, or 7 revolutions in 91 days.
A satisfactory graphic presentation is to use the 360° circle, divide it in
four 90° parts, and keep repeating the 90° square at highs and lows. Re-
lated is the phenomenon of markets staging price surges of 11 calendar
days (9 market days) which relates to the 88 day cycle of Mercury in-
terlaced with the 365° and 28° and 91° factors.

The most comprehensive and valuable charts are those of the weekly
ranges. Useful are monthly range charts. The tendency is to get trapped
with so many daily range charts interpretation gets lost. Application

--- PAGE 70 of 77 ---

[OCR] 128 SECTION IV

of the weekly range chart exhibits many useful elements. In the fore-
going, 1974 cyclic data noted a rebound and substantial upswing in the
stock market was in the prospect. A possible September low was the
alert with late December the probable kick-off into the upside. This
portended a base in October to December inclusive. The Dow-Jones
Transport Average chart is used for clarity and space limitations.

CHAPTER THREE

CHARTING THE PRICE
RANGE DATA

This chart is the weekly ranges of the Dow-Jones Transport Average
from July 1974 to August 1975 inclusive. As discussed, the September
low was anticipated late in 1973. When the October rally and subse-
quent minor setback stabilized at higher levels than the September low,
confirmation of the September low was implied. The two parallel 30°
lines (line A & line B) were entered, from the October low close week
and the July high close. Added was the dashed line exactly between
the two which was to represent market vitality, viz, ranges below the
dashed line would be weak, on the line normal strong, above the line
excessive strength inviting distribution.

Next step was to enter the initial 45°-60° bisecting projections (in
very volatile moves resort has to be made to try a 60°-75° combina-
tion). Point (1), for the 60° line, was at the bottom of the LOW CLOSE
week of the setback in early December. Point (2) 45° from the Novem-
ber low close week. The convergence (3) was in the center of the tenta-
tive range of closes at 166 the first week of April. When the April
tentative objective was approached the market was very strong (above
the midline slightly) but nevertheless reacted as due, up about 30 points
on the move from point (1). (Recall that 30 points or degrees are a
critical zone).

The reaction was quickly absorbed and the low close week range had
a tentative (dashed) line (4) entered which converged in May at a 172
close. This was the zone of the cycle high of the year prospect we
already discussed. Also the 172 prospect was precisely 45 points above
the October extreme low close week of 1974. It was time to move out.
On the move the actual high close of the year was made on the weekly
tanges the second week of July after seven weeks of lower prices and
swinging congestion.

Confirmatory weakness in late July invited placement of downward
angle lines (5) and (6) which converged at (7) approximately on
closes 22 points down or half of the critical 45 points resistance, imply-
ing a strong market and higher levels. However, the major underside
upward 30° line from the October low close week was under test for six
weeks but without a close making a penetration of it. Conclusion: take
out any short positions but defer buying pending more well defined
market prospects.

At this juncture an upward 60° line was placed at the bottom of the
low close week (8) (at 150-151) and a 45° line at the bottom of the
low close week PRECEDING the high of late July, which converged
at 204-205 in April 1976. As it was close to the major 60° resistance,
and the price ranges substantially above the median line, headlong buy-

--- PAGE 71 of 77 ---

[OCR] 130 SECTION IV

ing demand was coming in. Prices could attack the upper side of the
channel, marked by (B), but the third upward phase was in full bloom
and the upward intermediate trend was blowing off. It was time to be
a nice fellow and feed out the stocks they were bidding up in the fever
to buy.

This same step by step procedure, if followed exactly as detailed, can
be applied to any stock or commodity which is active and has participa-
tion.

Spend no time experimenting with different scales of measure and
papers. The 5 spaces to a centimeter, with each centimeter accented, is
available at almost all stationery stores. Cheaper grades, but the same
precise measure, are in every super-market and variety stores in 814”x
11” that carry school supplies. Sheets can be glued together as needed.
The uniformity afforded gives facility with projections and the rela-
tively small size is easy in picking out prospective moves. Plastic pro-
tractors (180°) of the 6” variety are a must. The 15, 40, 45, 60, 75 and
90 degree lines can be scratched and inked on them.

To lay out paper and set it up to begin a chart sometimes is a road-
block. The data is not available or takes too much time to search out.
Sometimes the plea is that it means going through weeks of back issues.
BARRON’S is the most available source of weekly price ranges and a
subscription to build a file of copies is a good investment. Most specula-
tors with a background of working at market action keep charts of the
daily price ranges of several commodities and stocks. These charts can
be readily used to run the WEEKLY ranges which comprise the secret
of this method.

Without a variety of personal daily charts and pending an accumula-
tion of price range data from BARRON'S or other sources, the follow-
ing are useful.

DAILY BASIS STOCK CHARTS, issued weekly
TRENDLINE 1 month—4 issues $27.50

345 Hudson Street

New York, N. Y. 10014

3-TREND SECURITY CHARTS Single copy $7.00
(weekly ranges; do not confuse with Cycli-Graphs)
Securities Research Company

208 Newbury Street

Boston, Mass. 02116

The Trendline charts are daily ranges which must be translated to
our weekly ranges and the week’s close included. The Security Charts
are weekly and cover about two preceding years. Unfortunately it is in
a semi-log scale which is useless for our purpose. But weekly ranges may
readily be placed on our chart form. Volume also is valuable and might
be used also. On both of the above a good magnifying glass, in order to
get closes exactly, is needed.

Our comments and illustrations have been confined to upward trends.

CHARTING THE PRICE RANGE DATA 131

Often more profitable in a shorter length of time are short positions, or
short against purchases which cannot be liquidated for one or several
reasons. All techniques are of course reversed. For example, the basic
working unit of the 90 square unit with its angles from an apex at the
lower left hand corner is turned so the apex is at the UPPER left hand
corner. This is obvious but years ago readers sometimes reported dif-
ficulty in applying this device.

A very few readers in the 1930’s, when this work first appeared,
critically rejected it. In several cases these critics were asked to send
charts that the problem, if any, might be overcome. In every case they
had intruded their own ideas or habits of charting, usually by distorting
the scale so that the price unit was not exactly equal to the time unit.
Sometimes the weekly closes were carelessly entered or left out entirely.

As a final comment this text requires step by step study. Casual
readers will be unable to follow parts of the text, and proceed to take a
critical stance this is just another book. It is not, but some key factors
are scattered through the text. Herein is the complete skeleton of the
results of 54 years of research and study which included 45 years as a
professional analyst. Many long time clients have insisted for the past
ten years that my personal methods of interpretation should be recorded
for others who are sincere students searching income and security in
perhaps the most exploited money melange in our society—speculative
markets.

--- PAGE 72 of 77 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER FOUR

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS
FOR A LOCALITY

(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters)

Locate from an atlas or other source the latitude and longitude of
the location to be examined within a degree of each. Refer to the World
Map page to define the proper sign zone. For example, let us take Pitts-
burgh, Penna. The approximate data shown in a Table of Houses
(Simplified Scientific T of H by Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside,
Calif. covers 0° to 66° latitude.) is 40° N. Latitude, 80° W. Longitude.
From 60° to 90° W. Longitude is the sign Capricorn. On the companion
USA map 80° W. is in the Aries Dwadasamsas ruled by Mars Pluto
(action, steel, iron, etc). The count of West Longitude is counter-
clockwise beginning at Greenwich 0°. But the count within Signs is
clockwise. Thus 90° W. Longitude is 0° Capricorn with 80° W. Longi-
tude 10° Capricorn.

To be meticulous, which is superficial in this instance, we can intrude
the Pyramid correction of 1° 714’. This means that 90° W. Longitude
becomes a trifle less than 89° and Capricorn 10° then is slightly less
than 9°. Turning to the Table of Houses under 40° Latitude and 9°
Capricorn on the 10th house cusp we find 9° (page 214) and apply the
data to a chart form.

In Raphael’s Ephemeris for 1977 we use January 23rd data as the
beginning of the biggest winter storm in many years. The data is for
noon London but adjustments are not needed; it is entered in the proper
houses. See chart.

Ruler of the 10th is Saturn in the 5th and retrograde in Leo. The
tables of planetary signs and houses makes this position an 8th house,
with 10th house mixed tones, active in the 5th house. On January 23rd
Saturn was sextile Pluto, square Uranus, trine Neptune, quincunx Mars,
but exactly biquintile the MC with Mercury rapidly nearing a conjunc-
tion with the MC. This is a more devastating major storm potential
than in the famous and costly affair of 1888, and similarly, the smaller
storm of 1918; Saturn was in Leo also in both of the latter.

Putting together some of the key words to the foregoing we have:
In winter the long angle of the Sun’s rays on the Earth keeps the tem-
perature of the Earth’s atmosphere at low ebb. Leo is a Fire sign ruled
by the Sun and Saturn in Leo makes the Earth colder than normal; in
the 5th house depresses the welfare of the area of the sign it rules
(Capricorn), generates hardship for women and children, reduces
speculative activity and public confidence and can be very depressing
to business and government. The key words of each aspect and planet
can exhibit the various problems and imply the final outcome, as

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 133

Lo
9

changing aspects are followed in the ephemeris for subsequent weeks
or months.

In a locality chart the house each planet is in may be significant. And
when a planet is in aspect to one or more other planets its potency is
enhanced. So-called good and bad aspects are of little significance. The
square and the trines are significant but are of differing values according
to the natures of the planets involved. An opposition of Venus and
Jupiter lacks the activation of such an aspect as Mars to Saturn, for
example. And the generally ignored biquintile group are the action
triggering group, second only to the conjunctions to the Ist, 4th, 7th and
10th house cusps, viz Asc., Nadir, Desc., and MC.

In our example chart the forepart of 1977 presents a disturbing busi-
ness, health and weather prospect for the Capricorn rulership area. The
often mitigating influence of Jupiter is quite meagre in Taurus and
lacking any close aspect of planet array. In early January Mercury was
retrograde in Capricorn activating the aspect array centering on Saturn
in Leo. Then Mars entered Capricorn, Mercury turned direct to cross
the MC, with its 144° (biquintile) aspect to Saturn January 23rd and
its converging sextile to Uranus on the 26th. Mercury Uranus aspects

--- PAGE 73 of 77 ---

[OCR] 134 SECTION IV

at sensitive chart points always indicate wind and when closely aspected
are the key to tornado paths; Saturn indicated cold.

The Mercury Mars in Capricorn combination continued active.
February 2nd Mars at 24° and Mercury at 18° triggered the Saturn in
Leo aspected array on the MC Leo locality zone in the section from
about 140° East Longitude or about 20°. At about 40° North Latitude
the Tables of Houses gives us 20° Leo on the MC and 11° Scorpio on
the Asc. Reported from Northern Japan were heavy losses and damage
with about 101% feet of snow over a period of 48 hours. Uranus was
conjunct with Asc. ruling the 4th with property damage large and sud-
den. Thus abnormal planetary arrays in Capricorn and centered in
Western Pennsylvania late in January 1977 had varying effects in other
areas. For example, Saturn in 14° retrograde in Leo approximates the
MC of the Japanese storm area. Another, with the same data:—Place
Uranus 11° or 41° East Long. 10° No. Lat. Scorpio on the NADIR (4th
cusp) of the 11° MC; 2° Aquarius Asc. ruled by Uranus, with Mars the
trigger. Ethiopian leadership assassinated in a major revolt.

Sometimes indications are observed which seem to indicate an im-
portant change in local weather and nothing occurs. The forces might
be compared to a loaded gun which has all the elements to produce
shooting a bullet. Nothing happens without trigger action. Note care-
fully trigger aspects conjunct or close aspects from the quintile group to
the angle house cusps, exact degree of the preceding lunation, and oc-
casionally the parallel shift from North to South and South to North of
Mercury, Venus and Mars.

To aid initial facility in interpretation, experiment with these key
words.

Sign Nature ist Decan 2nd Decan 3rd Decan
(f) ARIES stormy showers calm hot
(8) TAURUS quiet quakes wet stormy
(i) GEMINI nice rain temperate threatening
(25) CANCER warm humid normal windy
(SL) LEO torrid humid quiet wet hot
(m) VIRGO moist hot humid rain
(+) LIBRA changeable nice temperate moist
(m) SCORPIO storms cold static turbulent
(#) SAGITTARIUS windy humid placid stormy
(V3) CAPRICORN wet dry temperate moist cold
(<) AQUARIUS moist damp changes stormy
(€) PISCES wet windy nice wet turbulent

The key-words helpful in identifying effects of a planet on weather
and seismic trends, perhaps over-simplified as strong aspects amplify
or neutralize the simplified effects, are:

(3) Mercury—wind; ( ¢ ) Venus—temperate & mild; ( $ ) Mars
—turbulence, heat; (2) Jupiter—mild, warm, sultry; (> ) Saturn
—cold, precipitation; (6 ) Uranus—sudden changes; (Y) Nep-
tune—strong winds often easterly; (PR ) Pluto—focuses, amplifies.

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 135

The aspects between planet positions and orbs of effectiveness are
significant.

A general rule is an orb of 5% each side of center, viz, 90° 412°,
etc. The opposition (180°) is 9° each side of center, and the con-
junction is the same. All orbs in the Quintile series are limited
to 2°.

The activity of aspects may appear confusing as the three classes ac-
tively used overlap or are in the same degree (°). Interpretation ex-
perience quickly develops the application in a specific situation.

Harmonizing aspects (traditionally favorable) are: semi-sextile
30°, sextile 60°, trine 120° and 180°-30° or 150° quincunx.
Activating aspects (traditionally unfavorable) are: semi-square
45°, square 90° and opposition 180°; conjunctions (0°) are of
planet’s natures. The 2212° and the 180-45, which is 135°, often
are useful.

The triggering aspects (also marking reversals in some market
trends) are the Quintiles related to one fifth of the 360° circle, or
72°. For example, the root is 9, twice 9 is 18, twice 36 is 72, 72
plus 18 is 90, 72 plus 90 is 162, 162 plus 18 is 180 (except for the
latter this series is useful in estimating peaks of intensity between
major planets in close aspect). The second series of quintiles begins
with: 18 plus 9 is 27, twice 27 is 54, 54 plus 72 is 126, 126 and 54
are 180. (market trend low points often appear at these angles be-
tween planets). And particularly in weather and seismic data 72 x 2
is the 144° angle.

Since the attempts to develop push-button thinking by computer have
appeared, which may employ hoards of people collecting statistics to
feed the monsters, they may locate recurring cycles of weather condi-
tions, business trends, etc. Some of the outcome have cost a mint of
money with the only practical result many people are employed at nice
wages. Most of the tentative cycle rhythms usually relate to the follow-
ing planetary conjunctions of geocentric computations.

Saturn Uranus every 44 plus years, Jupiter Uranus every 13 plus
years, Jupiter Saturn about 20 years, Jupiter Pluto 1214 years,
Uranus Pluto 127, Saturn Pluto 3342, Saturn Neptune 36, Jupiter
Neptune 12 plus, Uranus Neptune 171, Pluto Neptune 492 years.

In the late 1930’s I had temporary access to detailed daily weather
data for a mid-west area for much of the period from 1910 to 1920.
Before the time involved made it necessary to abandon the project to
return to making a living a definite Jupiter (rain) and Saturn (cold)
combination was fruitful. The base was the Rotational Jupiter-Saturn
Conjunction chart of 1921 (included in this work on another page).
This figure was super-imposed on a MC locality figure and around the
circle daily ephemeris transits were compared approximately 20 years

--- PAGE 74 of 77 ---

[OCR] 136 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

from the 1910-1920 specific daily weather figures. It was not possible
to bring the research to compare other data time spans.

Weather and seismic conditions have a marked effect on business,
health, and all the factors which involve society. In examining clues to
conditions and probable future trends we can outline months and years
in advance by day to day computations from an ephemeris which covers
the periods being examined. It is a mathematical exercise according to
the framework of methods and procedures offered here. It is about as
occult, crystal balling, or ESP concentration as driving an automobile
on a freeway.

Procedure to examine the business prospect of a specific area follows
much the same methods we have applied to weather estimates. Major
difference is that house positions become more significant and the
angles (1st, 4th, 7th, 10th) recede from dominance (see section on house
rulerships).

As an example we shall briefly review the late 1920’s and early 1930's.
During those years I was traveling extensively in the USA and Canada
and was daily aware what went on in widely separated localities.
Modern history is conveniently rewritten often to erase “non-essentials”
and loses a lot of truth in the process. Where did the Crash and Depres-
sion get its start? It was a combination of many things. After Europe in
the 1920’s, and the sad conditions of Germany, Russia, etc., there was a
huge effort by private capital to stabilize the situation. It tried but
lacked the resources to generate capital, credit and money. The effort
was made but it collapsed.

Refer to an ephemeris (preferably Raphael’s) for each year from
1928 to 1933. Set a series of locality charts of the house positions only
for a half dozen centers across the USA, such as New York, Detroit,
Chicago, etc. For quick review note positions of Jupiter, Saturn and
Uranus only on these charts beginning in 1928. Saturn is in the MC
area of Sagittarius MC charts of the West and is moving East. Late in
1929 it is established in Capricorn moving to a square of Uranus in
Aries in a first house ruling the 12th.

In 1930 Saturn clings to Capricorn in square to Uranus and Jupiter
moves into Cancer squaring Uranus and opposing Saturn. Through
1931 the situation hangs on until early in 1932 with Saturn moving
East to Aquarius out of Capricorn. In 1952 there was a somewhat re-
lated situation of square and opposition. But it occurred in entirely dif-
ferent sectors than the 1930’s in sign positions and locality houses.
Saturn at MC is the clue to the depression of the 1930’s.

Incidentally, if a person super-imposes a chart of birth on a selected
locality the effects of that environment often will be indicated. To
illustrate locality factors refer to data on the mid-1930’s for the upper
mid-west. Saturn by forward and apparent retrograde was on the
Ascendant opposing Neptune, Uranus afflicted also but in the second
house, etc.; it was depression compounded by drought situations. Many
ultimately profited immensely but the majority suffered, particularly
those with their personal chart positions related to the Saturn in Pisces

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 137

locality chart. Some years ago a person who consistently experienced liv-
ing and career problems in New York City, with an afflicted 4th house at
the NYC MC in Capricorn, moved to Idaho where the Sagittarius MC
was conjunct his Jupiter. In the subsequent several years he realized
excellent business, health and social success. Of most value though is
the means to adjust to the problems of a locality through an insight into
area syndromes, in relation to the aspirations of the person exploring
the situation.

EARTHQUAKES
A Long Range Forecasting Procedure

The Earth is a pulsating mass with changing weather, constantly
shifting ocean tides, plus thousands of earthquakes every year. Most
of the latter never are sensed but occasionally the exception occurs
and generates devestation and loss of human life. Recent estimates are
that earthquake fatalities_in_1976, from the Guatemala, China_and
Turkey epicenters, were the largest since the year 1566-AD- To include
thé’ March 4th, major losses in Rumania intensifies the problem.

Science explains the mechanics of earthquakes is a movement of the
earth’s crust which is from 2 to 30 miles deep. Under the crust is a hot
liquid mantle about 1,800 miles deep and then into the center a hot
metal inner and outer core about 2,200 miles thick. Forces below the
crust may fracture and break the crust to form mountains, volcanic
eruptions and earthquakes. In some instances the surface crust has been
damaged and a break or fracture exists which marks weakness and
repeated tremors occur; then quakes become a regular situation.

The point under the earth’s crust where the greatest pressure de-
velops is the epicenter where the earthquake begins. However, greatest
damage sometimes occurs many miles away by what are called seismic
waves. A homely example is watching a pie baking in a hot oven with
the top crust without any vent holes. After a time the pressure in the
pie begins to mount, the crust bulges and subsequently the edges burst
open or the thinest area of the crust pops in a small explosion. On the
earth’s crust the increasing pressure causes the bending, dropping and
sometimes breaking of the surface, to generate the quake.

Very little has been accomplished in the efforts to forecast the time
and place of earthquakes. In some areas earth tremors occur almost
daily and are under constant study. The San Andreas fault in California
extends about 650 miles along the Pacific Coast from north of San
Francisco south. In the sparsely populated mountain area of southwest
Oregon-northwest California in 1926-27 severe earth tremors aroused
panic to find the cause. During the years to follow a forecasting formula
was attempted. Like everything else it has limitations, but the way
estimates weeks, months, and in several instances years in advance,
have been confirmed in approximate time and place, is of interest. Al-
though asked for my method of interpretation I have avoided explana-

--- PAGE 75 of 77 ---

[OCR] 138 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

tions: these notes present the simple procedure, with the hope others
will test the method.

Usually most observers are interested in a specific area where the
latitude and longitude are readily apparent. The forecaster wants to
scrutinize where and when a quake may occur. The location is un-
known. Here is a means of overcoming the problem.

Soon after mid-1976 Raphael’s Ephemeris for 1977 was issued the
initial result was to scan the cyclic prospects day by day. The first crisis
area appeared on February 24th in which Uranus, Saturn and Mars
were in the same degree but NOT the same signs. Uranus in Scorpio
was square Saturn in Leo and retrograde; with Mars in Aquarius op-
position Saturn and square Uranus. This is earthquake weather if a

trigger is produced —

Where a quake generates major losses in human life and property
the first house of a locality chart usually is heavily involved. All the
angles are significant in locality interpretation but where loss of life and
extensive property damage occur the ascendant (cusp of the first house )
are involved. Therefore in our initial example to locate the geographical
place where quake action might occur both the MC (cusp of 10th
house) for longitude and the Ascendant for latitude have to be searched
out.

Involved primarily are Uranus in 11° Scorpio, Saturn retrograde in
11° Leo and Mars 11° Aquarius. If our interest is confined to one area,
such as the United States, reference to the World Zone map 139 W.
Longitude (11° Scorpio) is in Eastern Alaska, and the only MC loca-
tion in North America, as the other signs are Leo and Aquarius. With
11° Leo the position is 131 East Longitude suggesting Japan, the Philip-
pines, etc, while Aquarius 11° is 49 West Longtitude through Greenland
and Eastern Brazil.

Before searching Ascendants at 11° degrees for each it should be
noted most of the serious earthquakes rim the entire Pacific Ocean
shores and islands. From New Zealand north around the Bering Sea
and south down North, Central and South Americas is more or less
quake prone. The only other major zone in recent years is Eastern
Europe in the area of 40° to 45° North Latitude and 20° to 50° East
Longitude. The latter “rings a bell” that the Aries-Taurus MC locality
in that area of North Latitude has a Leo Ascendant.

Now it is a simple matter of locating in a Table of Houses in the
Latitude of 45° as a beginning for 11° of Leo on the Asc. This is located
and shows 28° Aries on the MC. In the column for 46° North Lat. the
11° Asc. has 26° Aries on the MC. On the Locality map 26° to 28°
Aries is 26° to 28° East Longitude. This would show formation of a
possible epicenter where internal pressure begins to build at approxi-
mately (we have avoided minutes by dealing only in degrees of latitude
and longitude) 46° North Latitude and 27° East Longitude. This
center is 50 to 100 Miles north of Bucharest, Rumania.

If this is the where, the question is when? There must be a trigger
where any of the pressure build-up could explode. Mars at the 7th

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 139

cusp ruling the 10th and part of the 4th promises heavy property
damage and government losses. Saturn at the lst (people) rules the 6th
afflicted is prospect of many death and health hazards. Uranus in the
4th gives promise of an entirely unexpected event requiring help from
other countries. Therefore a trigger point is serious. The first one is the
Sun crossing 11° Pisces on March 2nd, and then the Moon conjunct
Saturn and the Asc. March 3rd. On the 4th Mercury is at 3° Pisces
after completing the 162° quintile to Asc. Saturn for the big test; if
anything is to happen it is due March 4th, 1977.

On March 8th, 1977 Mercury was 120° from Uranus and 150° from
Saturn. Using 130° East Longitude and North Latitude (10° Leo on
the Locality map and Saturn on the MC) a quake occurred below of

Japan Sea. This action is attributed to a reflex of the same February
24th aspects.

--- PAGE 76 of 77 ---

[OCR] 140 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

Rumania Quake

46 N 264 East
March 4, 1977

11
28

Epicenter reported 95 miles north of Bucharest.

MAJOR MODERN EARTHQUAKES AND THE RICHTER SCALE

The most commonly used method for describing earthquake intensity
is the Richter Scale.

The system, devised by C. F. Richter and later refined by Richter and
Beno Gutenberg, measures the magnitude of a quake on a logarithmic
scale using readings from a pendulum seismograph.

Each number represents an intensity about 10 times greater than
the preceding number—an earthquake rated 7.5 would be 15 times
greater than a shock measured at 6 on the scale.

A Richter reading of 1 to 3 would be a light tremor; 3 to 4, minor
damage near center; 5-6, moderate damage near center with injuries
unlikely; 6 to 7, felt over large area, heavy damage near center with
injuries possible, 7 to 8, widespread damage, fatalities probable; above
8, many buildings destroyed and large number of deaths and injuries.

Richter readings have been used to evaluate all major quakes in the
20th century.

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 141

North CW Stockholm a Leningrad ‘>
Sea ss
\ . 6) R U.S.S.R.
e

DEN. /
Riga Moscow
eyes,

NETH. 3
1)

, erlin,
e
WEST y, EAST Warsaw MAJOR
GERMANY POLAND

EARTHQUAKE

Bucharest
d ° Black Sea
»
~@ Rome
i ITALY

SICILY
Place Date Richter Deaths
New Madrid, Mo. 1811-1812 10* >?
San Francisco, Calif. April 18, 1906 8.3 452
Valparaiso, Chile Aug. 16, 1906 8.6 20,000
Kansu, China Dec. 16, 1920 8.6 100,000
Tokyo, Japan Sept. 1, 1923 8.3 99,330
Non-Skan, China May 22, 1927 8.3 200,000
Japan March 2, 1933 8.9 2,990
Chillan, Chile Jan. 24, 1939 8.3 28,000
Southern Chile May 21, 1960 8.3 5,000
Alaska March 27, 1964 8.5 114
Guatemala Feb. 4, 1976 7.5 22,778
Near Peking, China July 28, 1976 8.2 300,000

* Estimate by Frank M. Wolley in the ‘People’s Almanac.”

--- PAGE 77 of 77 ---

[OCR] 142 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

The problem of earthquakes has persisted for centuries and the ef-
forts to define the time and place of occurrence goes on. My work in
the subject has been incidental as a phase of economic causes. For
centuries astro-cyclic data applied to quakes has been issued. Much of
it has involved quarterly Ingress charts applied to areas which might
be suspect. Then:charts based on timing comets, eclipses of both the
Sun and the Moon, and conjunctions of resulting charts with Fixed
Stars have been used. To examine the material can become quite a
laborious exercise. However, as scores of quakes and the reported data
on them are applied to the same procedures as outlined here for locality
weather prospects the charts always exhibited fair results. Here is a
recent example.

On November 23rd, 1976 a major quake began in Eastern Turkey in
the mountain area near the Soviet and Iranian borders with the final
death toll estimated in the thousands. The location approximated 40 E.
Long. 39 N. Lat. for most loss, but the center probably was northeast of
there in the most mountainous area. Anyway, for illustration purposes
the above will suffice.

The Longitude of 40 East is 10° Taurus and at 39° N. Lat. and the
Asc, is 17 plus of Leo, the nadir or 4th cusp is 10° Scorpio. Saturn was
16° Leo at the Asc., Jupiter at 25 Taurus in the 10th, Uranus conjunct
the cusp of the 4th in 8 Taurus, the Node nearby in 1° Scorpio and
Mars, Mercury and Neptune in the 4th. Tension had been brewing for
several weeks with such a combination assailing the 4th, lst and 10th
cusps. The trigger was the lunation (new moon) of November 21st
conjunct the 4th cusp and Mars. Also the Moon had just passed a con-
junction with Uranus. If explored the lunation solar eclipse of October
23rd may have some build-up effects, as it occurred at 0° Scorpio.

Oddly enough a quake occurred November 24th 100 miles east of
Bermuda, or about 77 W. Long. 26 N. Lat. (MC 17 Capricorn, Asc 25
Aries). Then on the 26th of November a Pacific Coastal area from
Eureka north to Crescent City suffered a quake, which was 5.8 on the
Richter scale, and compares with 8.25 in the San Francisco quake of
1906. The Eureka Crescent affair was 124 W. Long. 41 to 42 N. Lat,
which has an MC of 26° Scorpio and Asc. from 3° to 2° Aquarius.

Quakes have occurred historically in virtually all locality MC signs,
but as noted before, concentrations of planets centering in the Taurus
Scorpio signs are quake prevalent (one or the other at the MC). How-
ever, these pressures having intense aspects to the angles of other areas
signal major disasters. Examine three events in Far East areas. First,
the quake July 28th, 1976 centered at Tangshan, China, 40 N. Lat. 118
E. Long., MC 28° Cancer ASC. 23° Libra. Second, on August 18, 1976
at Mindanao, Philippines, 7 N. Lat. 134 E. Long. with MC 4° Leo con-
junct Saturn and Asc 6° Scorpio conjunct Uranus and the Node. A
quake, plus a tidal wave, then over 20,000 homeless. And third, on
September 12th, 1976 at Okayomas, Japan, 35 N. Lat. 134 E. Long, a
typhoon with 41% feet of rain in 5 hours, at MC 13° Leo conjunct
Saturn, Asc. 7° Scorpio with Uranus. These three are related by similar
conditions but on examination the precise details differ.

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 537768952-George-Bayer-Book-III.pdf
Total Pages: 260
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 260 ---

George Bayer 
1. Complete Course of Astrology 
2. A Treasure House 
3. Bible Interpretation 
4. Gold Nuggets for Stocks and Commodity Trades 
5. George Bayer Method #6 
6. Financial Forecast 
7. The Progressed Moon in Declination

--- PAGE 2 of 260 ---

[OCR] ie |
o zt
. O92 guz 08% way YY
001 06

O degrees

270 degrees 50 degrees

240 degrees 120 degrees

120 degrees

--- PAGE 3 of 260 ---

[OCR] 2e6t yete «Tar

“ak ‘#aTQ puelsy Lueg
‘gaarqag yUsISaIO ATzZe
‘aaheg anvioeg Aq
2eet ‘MetsAacg

wakes eBiceg

40

SXOOPS TOT Su [ {om Se PIATIVN TOL
“eaacop Cry
so

uoFsepSIGISZVU] pus uot Z2eI1g

A90OTOHSIEBEY

ut agsinen se yeTanog

v

aWwTy TRSLepT3 eyR exe, NOA uooUu Tee perInose YAITQ FF ‘kep snoyaord
ayy JO SNTBA awTy TRarapyts ay. aye. nos uoou alojeq srnooo0 yatta
aud eBBO UL “e}Ep ey, BupMo LOS Bytemayds yous uy punoy BsemTe st
aNT@a styl ‘Aressaoeu sft YRITGQ $O oUTR TBarepTs ey]  T¥ dais
“ewty T#OOT ancy Le 166
qe ‘yoTMusetn £0 19TH OST “ONGAF OPTFTIOT ‘1OST ‘Pig yenBay uzo0g
@ATLEU AY. ONY aw STCweXa BuT{Ioa By “[Taaswm 103 4F pardisquy J
3} 8¥ pus Jreudw Oy aucoSotoY eyg foete T Fy Be yonf ‘aaza fq aags
SiWYRBTNZal puke Satnr ayy upeTOxe O04 BSuTo# m2 y SuodsaeaT sso. UT
"seuT} [LT@ roy pooS pue queuemied alu dey] secnog
JO faTORL §,Tasyudey, Pat 04 paqsadsns ey 41 pattnhar are saPNyT eT
Ieujo usyy *SapnypprelT TayzO ACJ euoU ‘Teneswoy ‘TOOdraatT pie UuoOpUCT
‘OLN LOZ FaandYy JOssTaeL_, SUTEZUOD ,STleusysg Tewyoey, PSTTe-98 any
“AUTO CopXeR Fa UTOG suo TO YAOR MON GE UZOG UOSteu v LOZ yaooBOroY v
Sutyew or" nok Toqyoya sousraLITP Jeers 5O BT 77 ssnBd9q "SOPNATERT
BHOPIBA BYR IOF sasnoy FO BTQeL_ BS] PseuU vA WSZT BxXOU au,
“gI0¥8 yOOQ |uos Ye TOST reek 94g TOF Braueyas ue knq 29
aARy a4 ‘LOGT Pig denBay uroa satyeu 2 soy adovsozou & exvE 02 LSIM
ou Supooddng ‘spum oq 04 ST adoosozoy YR rest ayy IOJ BTLOMOUdS
Ue TUTtM FLOM Of ,STOOL, ButwctToy eyg saynbowe of aay ay,

( 9aGoB8OTOR) gieyo B JO UOTIOSTEA SUL

IT uosseq

‘aote, ATSNoeuciie apy you
@l@ BUOTIETAOTED 9ya ABT O8 YLOm LSy2z0O 9UR DUR |BUO UseRnieq esderte
4TTENZOe PTHOYS ewTL "Hoeyo SATNger ey. OY G80 PUY ATe,eTdRoO 4UEwoH
aues aly IOX suo sayQOUy ezRM PUB ABMA JT YT “4SITI aysTawoo auo
eNBD 02 69 P[NOw SadoosoroYy jUBPLOGMT FOJ BQuepNgas OF Uo; BERBERS AR
‘Burg aq 02 YANO aINy PTNOM adoascroy aToqea sya asta ‘suoTABTNOTeO
UT A10Irs OU axe OF PeETOTedSYS aq jsrm srso Buyyeqsuted ‘pesn ere
BOT{BWEYED Uferteta B108fQne TTF UTM aBRo 34g ST BR ‘TaAAMOL
"etqtssod uostreawoo e ATprey St sreuy yeu yUS
-I3iJTp ATTSOTPRL GH DOULA BTYR PUTT PTHOUS BROOM 4xXAaq Tauj,0 OfUT
ApesrlTe Peatsp svy OUm PUSPNHZS ayy PUB UOTZOMpoOTA umo AM JO BF UT
-3ISY Paupezuood BT YENI Tre ATT#OToarg *AyTMsar parTseap ayy sata
PInese ‘ATTnjereo pewOTTOS J} ‘pue atdets ey uterey peutelaxe
POYSW SUL “Paseinoastp eucodue saHew Jey pue ASaTaAN ATagnrosag
QB 28Y4 SHOOK 4X9} UT petarvo uasaq aacy 7aUR eteggum ‘4BeTsQ
FO JOT B ayBuTutTa O04 wate J asrr09 BQ JO PTB ayy TITHK

takag aBbioen
4a
Sadooseroy fo
UOTIRIAIGIALUY PUB woTPoIArE

ABOTOTRBy JO ssinog ayeTdmeg

--- PAGE 4 of 260 ---

[OCR] steqrodmy 4zaa oete sy yuyod STUL "OUT? auAs eyy 3H eenoY 3 fs)
Geno out O8TH BT 41 "YRITQ JO yuswoU a4, 38 On ancge gent ey awa
sarod ey; Jo weABSY-pyW oyy BUBER “O° “ETRI SLBIZENIIT TIte Te" Std
“OSTRROOTO-TRUV GF Faenoy yy FO UOTZBZOL EU, “asnog 4eITz Byy
tO SutTuutZeq aut st O8T# YI “4UTO# aUBrodmy AtoOA @ By Yr “"YRTTA

4B JOBZ OYR UY BaeTT Fey, YUZOA oy} IO ZUEpUaoBY suuaM ‘osy

HH seoete " o8rtaA te
== enyrenby H ool wy
iy urooTiaeg n csvnepn @B

gx BNTIBLZTAEg a FutweDp ©
“ug4, OFdl0uR w anineg, Q
s= IAT] sitsoddo sorry A

t8uBTze ayqeoado yo 4eFT

6U} BT elay "weyZ Of 4XBU pexreW USTs vy7s90UGG By4 WET ATUO SeeiZsp

ewes 8M BABY GGSND ajysotio ayq 4wy4 sr 47 Ioj ucesear oy, ‘mou Fo

PAT eA}? Boe em ‘ceAaMON {(sieurLva) Bdens Bshoy XtsS TOF suotateod sty
PagstT ME ATUC ST arayl Aaanog JO sTqe_ oy4 UF z¥TZ e40u Oo,

*(y) SPpueces o9 OUT eanutD
auc pus (,) Saynuyw OS OJUT PSPTATP St velop aug ‘atorto aya «10
Beeidap Ogg exGforey4 IsAcS SURTS BT auy ‘Buct evesZep og st uSts yorg

WO 8008 td «+ am Bntzendy « by Utoopadyg-ontrey37Bug >”
Ku, ofdzoog a BIT e— A O8r ty <— eT 7
@ leouwy <— Tr Fuymep <— goeniney <— satzy
tere Agu, e1eH “owes ey, ATRUeYSUOD By woUeNdes

1;eul Cue may FO sATemL F248 STOUL “UaARAQ |aNQ UT suste TRoeTpoz
203 U$he pezuTendoe 355 of eARy Om TeYygIny OF sou oa erojag

sz Sze oT oO s s of 890%100U9
ve 734 el'eg ¥ , 62 BSgegsus
oe o2 52° RE $ £ ee ezTETSaS
Ce we See aoa Ze __»ssghypug A
Te T2 Ly°32 -€ T ge Spowmspus
Re tela B9°SE OT Q.. Sz Setmgeus
Mo aie mH v Zz ON. kp
£ 2 ‘ony at iad ot amt L PTS

seTowuxe InC JO argo aya] 04 BaarBep gy

TOF sasnoy FO olqey stg} Fo woyztod Tleme e szpexZENTLE Leys FT

. *2T Of 38 ATqyuseard Lreys om
nq ‘oRtpog ayy Jo uZts a zo cou ‘deno esnoy v ynoge zur oN Suapqyou
BOUX GM BRINGS IO *4USTIOW 944 JB aenoy Bw Zo dans eq}, wo PUNos st
#80} ear@ep qorxs oy aoys uwNTOO 4Q UMNTOO mOTaQ BLaqune ey, pue
DeTpPOY |Y3 JO BUBTS AuelalsTP oti DUTI Lit# nos yyesurepug ‘deno
asnoy ey4 Fo zequnu yy Sazeotpuy ety, ‘¢ ‘a ‘toey “et ‘tt “ot :a88

2

x

pexter ef Bupaop cy Sumuloo eyL “UMNLOO 48aTF 94} ST sty3 f-sanoy
pe Of OM BSutunaAl pue siney O U9Tm Supuutsaq Tealap 7s ayy 4as9t ogg
28 8F97T FI tSupMOTIOZ ayy Savys (ames 043 SROOT 8S, yewydey o9te)
PTA@l ATUL ‘wayz asn TTeys om pe uaaztS wre sosaBop By ATyovxe sof
Been, JO eTGeL eq Upelaym Belqey Ueacorng VIO sAvZ J ‘ranauoy
‘aullaytA IHF suo ayy ST septisweyae s,Toegdey ut olouy elastruag
ySorvau StL “8 6O DT ob US tamyy Tealapts etyd ZO o1eyy teaTh ore
FEUs Bostoy 947 FO Sano U4 ( NRLON Bsordep ey YI0q Seu satrEN)
Basizap Ep IOJ BesNOY JO eTQe] ayy UT GN yOOT mOU ay ize dog

SaATRUU OTUG

FO UITEQA JO FUsuoOW SY} <LOF BUTY TeFLaPTS ancy Test wyR ST STZ
‘e@ 60m of YS BTENDe sincy pz 9881 3 gow Sp Y Bz PROTO
oq} JO PUNOT suo 4ZoNpPap 04 eaey va ‘sINOY ~E oAogR unr au esneveg

E60 W oF U BE

3 Of (*2p $0 Zeug Leua jonpep ‘Asean totA PPE)

. SZ @ apNgtBuol 267 qusmastfpe
soo mo SOT@e pesdvuiTte sxcney x07 jUusamasnl(ps
S4e¢ U0 TORS

Q et) uoou 4ey3 soUuyTs pesdeT{[e amt,

TOET PLE YSNSny uoou suzy “pre
rBNYL “ewig [eetepis yoOoerr6o Teuts aus ute.aqo
04 s@ O8 (Fompep TO) Z9yZ0Z0; ppe mou om BoNTeA 9Seq% TLY

‘epniy;auo0l fo BaarBep ut yno

SoTTW Uy 2OU Paessordys vy ooUwRZeTP STUL “puelTSuq ‘yotmuastn wors

Usita fo aos{d FO adueZSTp suy UITmM ATUC BNO ‘UIT TO awTT 949

Utta Cp of Sutugou oxen sonTea quomganfpe eseuy ‘yor Sseynutu g ro

vOST JO Spuesas Z Saws Ce PP! pINOm oa AIC, MOL FO BATIBU B TOg

‘Bpuooss Of jJonpep o4 sauy sm “48eR GoaTZep GTurog Buysea aaTyeu m0

BRUL ‘Spudoas g YeantPEe O49 exsLy om BOIHAP UOe\s Lo *4uamaenlpe stud

PPP Of oAeY om (929 GpBUeD ‘ry"Ss*n SUTeag UT uroo Seat}eU Ox SB

Wons) Uotmuasin Jo 18a, uae ert) Uapanag ‘Ate, ‘AuRwran UE Ur0Eg

Beatsau yo sadcosorcy roy se AS) ZUemjaatpe eyz PoNpes of saat

Be ‘YOTMUSSIO JO .aRY Vauy "uOTMUsAaTD morzy aoeTd usta en} FO aoue
-$8%P SUR FO sled Bupye, sf anet 0% ovuy om Quawyesnfpe peat ayy

“dn Scupavne uaga

PPE OF Shey OST@ aa SNTea SFYUL “SPUooaB OF SeynutTU ¢o IO BpUCoAs QLZ

Saayt3 mon tad spyooas of 1a paisatpe aq 04 ernoy TZ anL ‘*iuangenl

“pe ino UY spucoss g BuyplTenbs ae SaqgnuTW GE BU} LepTeuco oy eAeU

PINOm om U9Nd ‘AY Of'G 24 DINGm 1T Bupsouang *agnttou sua yanf By 4T

esueoeq stTdwexg Ind Up ZUNOD jCU Op Sayuyw ey, “TT@ Uy TZ! sinoy

6 BNTd gt savy om eT Grex rao uy anu "(MOTIENZTS YVR FO arvo

Seyvy Juaemyen(py saoge euz Puy BpUodseEsS Zo SaynuTT ¢ }roge YINOT

pe UT IO ABP suo Uy soOoUBAPS omty4 TLRarepys oul) *quomgsalpe ue se

Ppesdelte sey zHyZ IMoy We UeYL sseT ZOE ATaywucTysoderd ao chou
yokes TOT spuonas oT oBed Areas UL PEE Cy oABY Om OTOMIOUZING |

. “upousiol eyy uy Bpucoaes Lc

aqnuTW T Stnoy Gg LT} ZFURTUpTU WoLZ pesduTYSs auy4 syy 44 04 PH

ee Vey S3q3;upyu of uocu snojfaatd vtR wOLZ posaeTTe yuyZ srnOEy

ST AU F8ITT Pps om STUY MAY ZE*TO'G FU PeTANoOo YATTG 2U4 asEd

INO Ul “MUCU FOUTS PasdR{ Ta at? a4} Ppw aA aNTBA Stuy OL Cw a

bas toke)

G1Ofoq PSLINODG UZLTQ ayy aesneoaq antea By~ABD SMO PsaIG ayy aan

0} asa ay ‘aptoosa ge tutw Tp BIneu g : aLoyog sEP 344 410} PUG

“288 GE -UTW By BINOY_ BY TOT IOJ sTrawayde 5 ,Teeydey ut ueazD

BE cou 98 [OST Pp yerEny roy omtZ "PTE eg, *'938P omee 344 FO

Ss zo U True

--- PAGE 5 of 260 ---

[OCR] payer By yoTya yauetTd avg saute aur Sutrnp yeu, sugam ayo, “BOTTA T1o8
~dIg S,10R90P 2 30 H 94d a7xTT ‘He any Fo goad zaaot euy ysnory4 eUtt &
YTA H LeyTaGeo © sirowpyae ayy UT PUTT Tita nod Sacty ay “Da ins
~1o9 fap oy Jo uoou FR UT ac 09 Uaddeo Aauy uBtTS eqi URTM rau} e304
‘gaqnuyTR pte SeerZap Ut uaays are szauetd any jo BuoTATSOG StL

‘ale woyyR{AviIqeer ITey? PUL Gow AFouZ UpeyxszT OF anAsy Fy
Bb Anosay

ph eungdey

Denusy po s1eR

feteitanp Yurrmeg of sauesy C voon © Ts
TSMOTTO] SB SUOFIE

-TASIQGE TBt99ds Ute Bitemeyds ey; UT pextum arv ejauetd sn)
“gp 187 WOTSeTAsIOgSs Bg] “gueqioduy 87
apow §,Uoom ayy “reuroo aySTz Fez |yR Fe SpoN 2 woo oUF FO UOTITS

od 0g} 81 eded egy fo sTey zaddn aq} so esn om Butqy ATuo 8%,

“pote Aw UZtM FOU FSBaT jE ‘mayg wort PRY aq Ud
B4[Nger Ou zeN}, BNO prMoEs PUB Magy UFTH SuTZ JO Aqueld jusce oneq T
*Atayetdmos want aBIOUBY “fe ROUT T9AsuU om eBeUL *pagonb osT@ sie
BapnzTZVlL Pwe SUOFYPYTLOOP, geuy S70U om TTA doy ays UT “apn Buoy
UT YoTmUaaro 28 ATR UOOU AOp peasT] suoTsTBOd 1340UBTA O49 PUTS
Tltm noA araym eed ayy FC gxvd IaaoT ag ut Lost Pile qengny of
pug yeniny fo aquP LapUN splomeyss eYyy UP ACOT wou Oy wWONd ynoge

gear0y puu mou epTeEe fTex,aTAmOo sasropy FO saTtarL ayy ART On

‘dew eu, O4UF ezouvtd sug 50 woTyrasuT ayy ieF Geqe

txreyqaty Buypasooad arojyeo ainp

wooord ayy puERZsxapUun NOA SeUR SINS ag “WOOU iv4zu puY ABp B FO uOoT

arejao sawty toy **y7s*Q au} UE saovTd roy ye TTaa sR adoing Loy
qges ‘Sout saTUTZap TOY SadoosOIOL TeLerss poste ATOM euog

"oe Ets UT Paweagsntit FF sTHser sul syBnorny

QUStergs “UU Gp ppe aw GGsno euy JO SenTeA TayzZo #UY TT@ OL
‘BNTIVAITIBA wLe_LT “a'} ‘Quewow sus
Ter puepusaose yoOsTA0o |BYyy uteygo pus onzie43Teeg WB@oTIT OF *uta of
a8ay2 PPE OF FART an 2HUQ SUBaW BIYL ‘duUEpUgose vy} FO anTea any
ut wotiow gO Beznuyw say QuaSatder Of ossyL “92 stenbs ogg:gogL 10

“Katpuenb umouqun eya *x sn SeAtB oge 4q POPTATP £47 F9UTI SF 1ro0
“x Of BW SP BT Of *O33 ZAT 94 ST "Dae O22 ae

1283 em ‘spucoas cguy (WGP enTeA oud qdooxs) SanTRA asaqt guTurny
X r¢UTw SF sTehds e2g mg i sORUC
TSMOTTOT Se woFPEnds oY} aye ae ANIL
‘outa pTnom ‘Zag LTT out? YOTUA TF yO.OUZT FO outs "PFS
WOTt gASas ST SNTHA STL "phS SET Sy amt, Leorepts Teng.oe INO -
‘(snTregit3es .2S Tt 93 “Fes idoTT)
JM Ch BT FXOU ayy OF UUMTOD auc WoIs detia Supa Tc%syy, uy souareliTP
“8 OF @ EG BF FXOu 3yy OF umNTOO auo WorTy ate “prs UT goueras ste
rsng4 ‘yZnou, ATzoet200 pernByF eq OF say pUBpPUSOSY euL
‘yrom VOTRIOGOTG Tayel INO UT szxTNser 153%3aq 303 pue
©2 PPB OF BognNtm cp ver usne Avu aw $seanoy ou FO edseno ayy TOF
SBNTBA Qoes Of GOYRUTM OF Auyppe pu" sQwOTeT FO SB OAN LOZ GBesnoy Fo
aToRL ata UT venTaa pezupid ayy Suyan sazepTsqsoeu sFyL “FAgw2qet
ST 9F esnuosg ‘seopmgusl PU BOMOUST WasMI2sg aTPPtm agg uF yneIs

gent BT owt} [eerepts pertnbat INO 7VUY PUTT aw ased BTNI UT

ee ras 2o°eTt ee Tt tad BO%L UST

se ST eectt ee fa) Tt Boru Ut

2 st 40°TT Tz iotef o BOOMOOUET
= OO uw = =F

£ z os et TL long art Pte

:SMOT TO? BB
BRAOOT SIMON BT JO AFTRFOTA 3ya UF ALOA may Log sasnoy Fo STICL SUL
Bogs uw 2 ZI
a oo & 2 (pez) (986 OST) & Zw s88n OGL TOF aenlpe
eee wt {°998 OT FO €/t an[d *oag 08}
pasauTie Incy goes tog -oas OT p5Nlpe
{1 PIUDUEIB OF pensn(py eo 04 St owt, sPupace RyZTTAeg yey Bayou)
Bo nos us ucoU soUuts paeaeEl{s9 arty
8 yO Use Ue ucou 36 Zest Ws2ZT Aen swtd “PTS
“GA0G% USATZ SUOTPONAQZSsUtL
rad S€ 4UoWOM SI, Lop gdoosozoy ey} FO aWweIT GYR FooTY 'toPIG
‘omy SSuTAeR IUBTTARP Nd O2°S “4CST WizT AeK ogn
TIeue ay “yoTtauesats fO 38eK Beerzep SZ S8etT yotusa *£91D ALOR wey
ZOJ 4} SAvy om PUL DUO ZBI au} Gay sOU ZazaCys oT ‘atduexa
pucoas & 38h am poozysTepun By vAOQe ag} [Te 28G% eans 9q OF BU Og
“yUgita JO aoRTG ey 04 SBuoteq psauy
BPNATIET JO ealBap yoariod 944 pu EMT, TvoTEPTS Zoarstoo eyy Buyen
‘qeBnog JO eToey, ayy BOLE Usr¥y Suyso santea egg “easno sanoy 3f3 48
wang gaqua yen pue peP®ueyoun savaT em susno eBrcN TeqzoO O tly
“OSTA 2e°LE ‘OTT ‘JuUBpUadSy eTY IOJ aaTUTM pours
ayy Bf saaTa stuL "(Sy 10 Q@f/l) sepnepw & spreaxoes oS 04% cagy on
fexoyereyy ‘SeTtuyu By dee Uso Bu Se ST TOT UOTIOW S QuepUsose ONT
JO Q/T JUepuaoss 9yr UItm Foug of sf op 09 eawy am T1e Seroyereqy
t(epucoas Teg) © Te uri ~ FO B/T a8OTO AtaA ST BDUCOSE Bp tTeKeuy
L5Sal spuocas Sp TO Ss gOUT™ gp YS BT eUTZ “PTS O49
Lous ‘prewxoeg ZUEpPUeoDe Py} DACW 02 BABY AM OP IB] MOH ruoT sans
‘gouetezzJTp Baynupyu Bp sAeY
am o8234 So°_g FO eNTCA ‘ope OF CRITA “p"GZ JO anTeA *osy WoL Pue
ate U } ete CG'OP'S BUTY “PTS 04 FO“EPS OUTF “PTe wors :aupéee
fq ‘santTea ey3 woTZrTodorG em fosy at, Jo quewqen; oe aud O2 BY
‘rea 1a @G JOU TIkM 84[hHed isseuzoExe TecdTpemayzew YITM
adeno eanSty of Zawagze 7OU OQ "TERT pauyetdxa oq TItm apertnooe
004 84 Of BABY YOU OP om ATM “OTS (1OCOZ) OFZ YVFIs UZ!ST SUS ‘oe*T
UiTs UZTT ems ‘oe'Se WPTm Geno esnoy QIOT a9 Xtem pTHom NOA Usd
(8 STM op YS Uaeq asQU PTNOmM aya LeslepTe BNI FT sseo Sud eo PTTOM
se Yons) eutz [esreptTs usaZs e432 FO s{ppya syq uy qen( ATSUSPTOUT ST
aut TRetapts 3804 3$@4, BUSUUYY FE FT SET? ‘umoys ore Aeqg Aem Oty
PARaT Leyyte moé aceyzo TLY "quougantpe epasu ATTeuoTaZo00 YeuD ds no
£TUO 9yL BT STUL “SUBpUsoBY |Ya OZ Puodas zoarrIOD ayy Fe ®ATIIE
0} BB Of qyenfpe of Sup UTM O FO BOUSISTITP FP ARBd INO UT eABd OK
. “ATTS@YLaz eM TeSJTP PTNoOM eaTy “pts eq4y
0} }xXeU UKOCUS FeNpTea oyzy sopNgzysey r9qgs IOZ yeY4 B40 *spetzap EP
Ioj geunoy JO sTQeL mmo ut s cSt sp us Buysq se uaoys sf STUD oF
BUTEA YBatweu ByL "8 BOW 9p Y Gg SF STAwexe tno yo emy4 "PTS aud
*seenoy ut 29

euSte up syeusTd ayy go zoazze Buy go rou ‘arogdays a¥re—T agoaap 34xe9>
TRopPSoporgae rayyo yotym 104s BusTH |YR JO TOU BeBnoY ayy FO POOTFO aut

yNOQe Pallsouoo ZOU sre om Yom IMO VY 7099 (GATT Sth ag fsoddo) asnoy
BEG oy} FO aNTea oy3 ST Os tuate eyTBeoddo su ypTa ATU ewes Oud ST

aferg aanoy UOT a03 agysodde aNTSA eu4 FVuy 940u savatd pus seanoy our JO

sdgne 393 tu peoRtd aq O2 BABY 2BUR Ber{ec ayy Prasuy T eg *3tea UT
¥

--- PAGE 6 of 260 ---

[OCR] i azT202 Io‘Hny) pre
you aap uty) UOTPOW 3 ABP aaTzBe EY JO 9/T (TO 7
eerste ou Sboriised saok But mots 39 pop AjTatau ax atdmexe 48271 at}
UE snip . exrnoy pe fo 10) 4ep atc jo g/t gnoqe sy} 3 ce weg u¢
renuy Aseea sp ,Bupanlyy puywy BTRZ “peyw imo uz yeuy parnryys
ueo om GUO AOTS BYQ Tag “HZOUETA Suyson set eyy oz STaswagce

se F Gy uy sBLGe z e} BY} OF aSINOSeT OVE dy
aU, TO 4oeQ suR Ly seTQe_ WUZTTEPOT Vyy OF eee aus
OLUT patajue ayy ere esau] “Buena ey go uyITG FO aovTa suz Ge
ByoueTd au} FO uc_LTSOd wsNuUpe PORXa AY} BABY BH med ABP Yeuy uo
sTratada ay}, ut uaaTta Se BuOTZ THOU UcOU BU WoIZ UOTZCH Fey, FoONps|p
ftduyze an 7euR MOU ae LER Uspoysed osst4 | Supsnp [aawI4 Sspauertda
BNOLIBA at% PTP BSB MOR sUaco MOU VOT SEND ATUc ayy SeAvsT STUL
“UuSpuoT UOOU aToseq UW OF G CT Patras yUasa Puodoas Oh
fucpuey uocu esojaq 8 oz W ES YE Parinoos suoars 4e2TF OL

uTe OF BITIOU OT BIABOT
are 68 THOU Ty Rotpap aa

“Uy OY ATO ,O TT TIBo 3a wo
tunpuog WW OFT 2B Parinooe yuass Lg6T WAT AEN SUL
‘spudoas ge ‘uTM aS  sanou ¢ SaAvOT
gpubsas ~e “Upu@ T x90TS,o B ZOUPSP oa
spuoosa OS "UTM EG ANT, IT :TTa@o #Ou am UOON
ODUCT MY SLCMT ROOTOO G 7B pedano0o yueas ToST Pte ‘Buy oyy 3BUs
purty om ‘eo TGwexs of IMO AUTHe] “woo worl sewe elt om SatnuTw
pue srhot Ausw poy yno aanByy OF ST mou op Oo} aaBy oa ly
‘ucou 4R YoTuosrp TOZ UsATA are suoTZTaod ,SyaueTd ayy asnBo
Soq ‘aut 2eny zor suoTyrsod ,B4,eueTd euy yno eindyyZ 03 fave AlOA
ST 40 emt Gotausetp UT FUSAD SU} PSYST{TQeSa Bdouo SUTABE
‘o*raqgme daap o97y
Atlee wok astmranyoe Speotpowezd pues pooyssanum eq gant STL
“aUT. WOTMUasIH UF AV OS" FB £O61 GFVT Au uo ATTENZ0€
perinsoe amyz SButaes USTIALP ur0gsed Ad OF'S YF LTET WILT Aey uo
qUsAB AIOL man SUL’ (awry woOpUoT Suyuesw) uopuoy ye pag ysntny vy
Be'T'P }@ Parrnooo esoarnc ano acz ATTeNjow Yotmusarg jo 4eeg a3
TO6I Plo yendny uo mY LZe°T’S Fe oTawexe uno uy partineso yey 4U he &
ey} Sarosereyy, “(emtz Ueow YOFwtosrp) smzq UopUoT OFT PatIndd0
17 TaABTAUM {wasae aya FO awT2 909 UINI Of BaBL SABATE OM 148]
*"Buora aut y wopuoy aquupyrodoid
au) Supimngts Aq Buozm apew st edoosoroy & AUeM iBewT4 Supers
pues uoou ‘Supuzow ‘seqnupu azoz Atteyoadse ‘Awp eyg jo samty JO
SpuUuTy LIe foj paopyoerd aq prlnous Itesre owyd sty pALoR auoK
‘a3 UOPUCT UT Me OS*T BT 37 wodg ‘(Uta4seg)
e2T) prepuers Ad OFS ATENDS YOTUM 4IOZ MON UT wy, sBuzaew quByTssp
Ad O86 ST i} wats, ‘ATezy ro AveuToD Jo gued Ave uy omTy prepuezE
wl@al ¥OOTO,0 & ST AT Vay SUOPUOT UT gL ;T 3901910 BY BT 37 UeUH
‘uopuoty uy Asp BupmoT tos eg AY £ OT 47 ‘CosToUeTy wag UT Ad 4 ST FT
Usage “UOpUCT UT Ra T ST LT “RIOX mOaN UT AY B BT 4} Usa BNHUL
. “s2eT SeLAUTM OF ST FT PUBTTIOH PUN VOpuoT Ussugeq Sedat
INoy suo yy AUBMLEH TELLUSS PUR UOPUCT usemteq ‘arnoN g 3} 44 evTL
otFfoeg pur uopuoy usemzoq fesaney 4 ST Ft eUTL UPRZUMOR pus UOpPUly
Uasazeq “Srnoy og ST 37 OFBoTUO PUB UOpUCT Usemjeq *SIMOY Gg BT ALCOA
40N PUB UOPLOT UDeB{eq SoUSAEFETD oUTQ OUR QUTE Sn TT94 SovuaUTy
"(WOpUoT) Yotausery te yenf vq 04 Suaddey Ji sestuN ‘BImo00 YAI;q we IO
RUSAS UB aDETd OQ} TOF ZOU PUB YOFMUSeIH IOz pornATy sre sudyzzTsod
;830ueTd Tle eaneoeg “atedday JUarAe a2 Waym YOTMUsetn ye oUt, 9Td
OF yeya gno oxrnSty of sf op OF Suzy ysxtz any foTUs UTeZGO Of
*pagtsod st 4} afnoY suy pu
qUtewom 2UqR 2 PazReEosoT at FeuURTd oyR DoTYA 30 O4NUyM pu asrdop aud

L

EER ERREURRRELETRI RE

‘UATE 844 fouyy JenzR BOF Ueavey ayy UT BUF oc £1UR9UUTA ZORKS euy
BOUY OF PUG Su FUSWOW UTEVIaO BIG} aaoosorny 2 ayeM am ua
“ST Aick PSTPeSeP STY LLe FO _esccand 849 ye4K
gno 4erTy puyzy wcu aa ‘ro9aswoy ‘xioOm FTyy GLUT ButoS oxrozag
*aQNUTW LoBXS Bud Of UMOP ButanStz ayi op Cr pesn eq asm se
qons smygyseSoT yo eToey @ Foes |ayZ UT Utepios stremaydse SyTarydey
“HLOM 22N4 LOL SWYZTIBSOT 39M 09 BAST ay “HOTAewIATIR UTeTd uatTM auop
[las 90 youuso 4y “Peers PuocosSss ayZ 63 SewTR Ze eaNSeaw 02 BAay aa *4nR
‘kSeo pure aoyt ag PTNOM SSutuy9 smo waAa JO 127,4eu e 9G PIMo* 47 ZT
‘aaneg pg Al Guys eave Aep ixeu avg go woou oy sep suo To UooOU wWoIT
osnvoaqg ‘einoy ¢Ez STeACS psode STy, *zouBTd syy yo pesds eu 3T
ABP FXO 3VZ JO uGou oy ATP ao FO UOOW WOT SeinuTE UL BsaZSap UT
PoUSLOTITP 244 ST TaAa}auy ‘usMNous ZOU Sy sUCTe 9UO “RTM arievow og
suotatsod skepomi asay Of aneT SAemTe Vu SNUL “oUt. YoRe dawetd ayy
JO poses 949 4No aINFTE ganw om 2euR BT AOw BTYZ Fo geTS sup
"BUE {19,88 IO'Bes ,Toobe 0% TeNDa SP UTOOTIGRD {T6590
"TY ;LBoTE TO SeTay iLe—gs OF Terbe 97 ananey ,42 9 :3eTdMexe wey y
“48B] JOMipan 03 eTQe_sqQ PINCH I 3eY} OS (,09) SeymnuTH
oguy eerSop 4Uy4 peucng pur sseizep go 8%) worry seaSep et panorz0g
I a8eD PITY4 aud UL “Sey Alaa ‘eTAWaxy JOS “UOTZOw s \MOOH aga FO
SUOTZONPSD axXvw Of Savitz Auw nod dpay saBuego sseyy “saestE 1SLoZF
09 Tuvba cate pus Ba0sTE \SToSe OF Teide ST Satiy ote
pany, "USTs Plo #42 Jo Sure, uy usts seu Be uy anfEea ayy
BRalcxXe Sauty 2e Aew aa ‘SesOdIEd UOTIRIMDTa@o TO ‘zaasaoy "UsTS
qxeu eyq zo satfep g Cp [enba af uBys suc jo saerFep og pur Suot
SaelSap Of ST ULTS BuO Ye. wOUR Sy 'Tayjoue oAuy UBTS auo worry
Saaou youeTd oy} veym Delajunooue 6; AR [KOTZSTP ysayeers ayy
"SIOTFa Suyyeu sue *Buyauty f¢psytregeuso fo peoyeut
Buypessord srozeq 38173 sseUtsno, Buryunoo siuy asisvm nok IT auty
BIcW aA@S NOA BAaTTSG I ‘omyy PueE aousT_VA SaHeR HTYY ‘yUs0 pus
SZETTOP Uztm qunes nos sv yanuf Bpucosy OuH Segrutm ‘sear3ap Tite
qUTCS OF UTRAT Of BY arITNbow 04 saA@y not geug Sutuy 4$8ITF Buy

fe8 UROTES ObTAS $16 PIAtT st tute raw y fyigradep tT Pre’ Sny
‘sOTUBOOE! 1OUIAY hes BLATT TL ‘Hi ez"1deo § f\TI@dep TT wipug’3ny
AINoIaR Bota, srey tayyanp UIngTe

wz Seg ct faz reste g fs BeoeTe ETf4Se CeT OT: PAE Bry

wot Bee CT fyu2 se0uvp go {,8) BeoDtE s fyZe CBT gIpus ‘“Iny
snuegy BUNZCSH woo ung

(Mopucy 42 uot a Teed uccu SAeaTe) :9aOT TOF

8a SqFOoT LOSL Pig ysusny pue puz isn3n y ror stremwaydgs ats
“Hiem yOu op zBuQ SsSutiIa fo
. TeeTo Laaig “antva ou Jo way, punoy pue asaya. paqaca osTw eaeu Tt
SdseuewtTy Teeraney UP PHZRUFIS ore 9G yous suopyyscd oTApUsoCTTSaU ICF
,Poud aw Stuy Atdde of 3dzeqqe 9ou og ‘uArea Imo worry uaesa sR 'a'T
BIOTetTeod ofryus9oss aqeotpuy BTlewsyas ery up umous sarnStF tly
‘ ‘epergorjyar Buyaow JaAeu are WOON NUE Mg "OYNTT pue sung_daen
anuery S‘urngug ‘xezpane ‘szewetd Supacy wots 243 Aq ATREGT pus
sley AQ PadOTTOS ‘ung au. Gaya ‘Benue, usqy ‘Arnoray at Teaaow
¥8aoz Yxou aq, "ABD “vORS BeexZaep ST 0} seal3ep TT Usemzaq wors
Seaow 4] “uOOm BU ST JauvTd Butaowm yosisey] any “#.aueTd Jutaog
ATMOTS 37m SYZuCU fF 03 SzauNTd Bupaou 3383 UPTM S¥adM BOTT
MOL} 4Sel suot Yow spaxrZozyar assay] "worry ames YT araue ByIaa
—x9vq Aes 04 of Buptaow af FI “SB MAOOTO-TFaue St pUsmeaow zepnzer
847 St tua ‘xoOTS au. usytm ButAom ‘asy ‘aperBZorzar sq Aww JBUD

--- PAGE 7 of 260 ---

[OCR] 4@ Up Te OF} OT UD OF MOTT SaAoW AZNOTAN
“qaeyo egy UT Parezue ST STUY
“iTS FA GS 8TeOba ZT s8eT fp TA Gg ‘ENS, JO ucTZ sod YAITQ ayy aaey
pure ToGT pre sny JO erwa, JO UCTLTSOd LOOU PaUEIU aya Mog Sapnutw
BT VONpep am UNG “yZL at g 44 ePTATP fseqnuTW og, BTuNdDs isaqnutm
ORUS sCtol aug autumn Aq ALTHYUaw SIMON p TOF UOF_ZOW ayy einBty ox
‘\Stot FO ich TA GS O% OL TA o WOTJ BTduuxe Imo UT BEACH Bnua,
*sTrowogas oy UT UMOYS BE UOFTSad soOoOU ayy OF pUNoz ZayNuTM Fs
ad PPS PINOwx aw ‘uOOU Tepe yao “Aep Bw JO O/T Waaq BABY PTNOM OSsTE
Yous ouyg uopuor aq 7 3 Uoog OacYy PLNow UITEQ sayy Buysoddng
"RT Zejue om aleUL “@lQtT JO USTs Bud UT iM—Zl $8 SUM UFZAIQ
FO ZUOMOM 3YZ 4 TAU AVYR SuveM Sty] *seqrutw § (,g TY ET) Ire FO
ROTATION UOPUOT UOOU 9} WOT YoNpep ATGwts awe yIuyo aug CyUT AT yoer
“TOO BIER aovTa 63 Bay *19 Burt~ende s:og ATI@pUew eptazD om ‘Ry SG
YUoReT OF S¥ OS PLeNHOvO UOTIOW S,AUD & TO G/T Suton ",e¢ Io 1.6 tT Zt
©} (fF TI LT Wory Saaow ZY “Srey ST epuoOT Cy peRBTd yxen eUL
‘tauq AQ uve T dens
TOs mous ATXOIND Tlya SILeys AY, Taso Sufyooy ‘prempystx pestepue ey
qreuo ey JO FTUQ IYATI ayy tpleagreyT #anTes siawetd eus Bupstim Ao
perejue s} (sazreaziBeg LZ vq pThom guyod srqy ze" Bta LT) ITPeN
FUX PSTTRO Sr Hem ayy St TSOUGG AUTOR ayy 0) Umop (WAABeq-PTN) "OTN
BN} WOLlZ “a*y FIByO ayy JO FTBY FJeT suL “wad suys ¥Y ITM euUOp ec
PINOYS FTBGD oy} O4UT Buppprm ayy “RaeTANOr4 sAvs G4 Se OS YerUTd yore
AOf sNTBA ayy PUTyag USTs vq} BsusTEY YG cy Fpawy Bw YT BAER
TuoyTatsed ATBMOTREIS 949 PaTl¥o S] eperkorgel 10 yoerTE senGoaq
sjeueTd ayy yuamow eu, ‘qd Te3¢deo we Aq peutjap st #pny ‘woTy tao
SO00ITP OFUyT UCT4}Cod aperSorzeL Wukorz Burn, pouuTS @ usys ‘reramou
HpLoweyde au} ur “pooyerapun sy yy esneoaq ‘ov ayers you op aa ‘pres
~roy Sutaow ‘ay ‘,oertp st yeuetd 9 uoqy ‘sperderqyor sa Gy susauey
ReunTd vy} saanutm pue seeidep ayy putyaq YE 4nd em AL Tansy)
“H Jf FO % TezTane
‘mo .2 Seg gr snuern {,87 up o aunziay
r@uoTgTSod ButmoLLoy oy sn seaTre stay
*UOOU 3B TOSt Pig psuBny fo Be antea aug AdGo es “poerent
“pe to pofusyo ag Of Spee e8eq3 FO SUON “preayoug eeynutm ¢ soaow
Taqicnp isaynutm ¢ BeACW UANZeR seinuym suo CTY BRURIQ taynuty suo
ATUO BINOY 7Z UF GSAOM OUNZOSN 4074 oF0U om OTdMEXe Ino UT
*qreyo
OU ORUT peteqzus pue petdoo Byrousyas oy} UT WoyytEod paqutad eyt
Ajdmte ynq ‘tte 4B pasreyoea Oy eABq TOU ss0p ‘AED Jad sainute 9g uBR
(‘eeines yo ‘fATuo aTdwexe ano Uy) B¥oOT Geaou quy, qoueTd Aue guq4 o8
‘ginoy » UT eyTUTM T JO UOTseTLeA B ANoqe BuTIg O4 se Os (BINOU
PE UT) Sup ong Bupinp sazgnuyu g YHBSeT 2U paeaxoeg LO premacs eAow
Of 8BU BT 47 TeASUDTUA FOUETA AWE FEY mOUX OBTe am ‘AED @ JO O/T
IO Binoy 7 Of BsOTS ABA BT (OF BINCY ¢ YUN} Tequomer am uEU,
"BATIRU ay4 JO WRITE AP WOTATSCA ayy ALTeno8 8B «Ze Td AT
UTBIOO puw ,TS Fg ST a¥ pag ‘Bny 50 stasewayds eyy BT umoys uoTypsod
UCOU SUX WOTT ,ST_2 eu Jonpaep A4{duUTS ag ‘Stlawatde ays UT UROTS ST
UoTZTIOd UooU BY4 aBNeoeg "“{OHT PAs YanFny wo uoou Tt9 AY TOE woIT
BenUIW 61 Searzap Z STaaABl} UOOT BYL taOlarayy st TemeuEe an]
*BINOY UF YOU PUue FUSION FTL ye soerTep
UT Teep ATuO om gyno ‘ "tw BT BInon g eNTHA BTU TLl#o Oste fan on
"1BIo? "et Saznutw pus serSep [THz eB 03 sHuoleq yeq4 PaysTI emTBA
QSaTRoU SYA BB SSO’ T PUIT am aTQBL SOT 344 OFUT HOOT KOU om BATH

cre pue pug Sry useazpeg

SHou2 BO TT urnaeg

(*Sotjapto't 79083 om tayQO304 Bantea Oa} |80q% SutTEpy

‘oces BT‘UTm@ eB s9313ap FI 2OT

eles, ST eg Binoy ¢ Boy
I47 supaTaxa wuopaParrTuae teotzoerid y *saanutu pur sasisap ut antRa
INO JfO pear am UyZTITeBCT styz woIg "UOT {OW eNz JO MYZFIVBOT ayy st
PaUuTezQo YINSSI SyL "SAaNTBA UsATS 94} FOX sButypTTEFoT sayy rayge904 eye
om ‘(Bytameyda BYR wOLS 47 Supcnswaw Aq \Zopl SF Jt} MOUK 9H) UMGUA st
(4p 1) sinoy ¢g ut paads aq, pepracad (,eS SxnoyY p sewO AMO Uy) amTy

Uaat® uyeqaso & UT peuetd Be Yo uOoLQOw Bud PUTT Of fey etn au,
- ‘eTQeL ou UT pogutad uyytieSoyT Tauot
“jioVedd Uso SUT SeU GT 92 O WOLZ SinuTw Pue MOY Yyoea 4O SaelzBap got
©2 9 WOrs sANnuTMm pur se1Sep Yous ercseieyy *(seerBap ro sinoy yo wos
do} ayo 09 SupBuolaq) saqnutw aq} pUrz em atael ety JO apts yore up
‘smnoy moys [Two Pus 47 2OJ eToqMNU sue sesyz oSN om ‘UOCOU atoleo 4as
Bmou ¢ ParIINoso Fupaey wIItG JO awT, ayy_ *seatZep aiequnu ssoyy
T1S0 em eGeD yeNZ Ul ‘UU Zg BeerZap pL atduexe ano uy By uooM ay
ZO peads sul “meu, peau Aww nos se saatzap ro ganoq quassider ogsuy
"st.o3 dn fo ‘2 ‘¢ ‘9 moaz Supuuns axrequnu putz em doy sya Up
"(asec 4seT ‘atzamagdg B,Tevyauy an yoor) ‘amyypreZoT speu, Fo oan 943
yNoge PezeoFTdwoo Bupyzou sy ereyy, “saoqe pewuoyquaw se eMy4{reZoT
UOTIBINOLSD STNG OJ ASN ay 'ATTERUSM pornSTT aq gouuwo eu Lb ,2oFT
Sea siney yg 20 ABP suo uy pavds sit usvH Lule.8G BaImOSU assur

UT Taaery UOoOR Su4 PIP Faynutm pue BeorBep fuew mo suOTZEend
“Pay 94Z JO UOOU BTOZaq yEZiS@S BINOY g TO ‘AY g4e1T
ANOTO,O F WB PATEL Wty YoTatsaty UT YIItO SUL ‘,GoPl IO IS Fd GI OF
iGP Fd G MOTF YOTMUBSIHD Woy Usss Pug’ Sny ucou TEL pus"Sny uoou wouz

srTesery 31 REN} SFOU Sy *UDOR 944 SF ozpRooT Of ZeuvTd qxeu ouy
"Uru ST BNTG earsep y4igl eyQ uo Cay Jo usTe ayy ut AT20BNAE UITON, BPH FO
SPNZTIeY @ 12 Pues yoTausaIy jo R8BGoST WIT UseB Be YZITQ FO quemou o4
43 See ptmofy au Se Ng eu] “UISTq Jo aoeTd ayy ae UseB se YIITR JO
RUsWOL at} tH UsAR al sg UT yYeuReTA yous FO UOFSVOOT OuZ PUTF Of BT rOZ
Sutéay are ATTunjyou om geup “43 393 Of ABM YBaLTOYs au, BT BTNR MOUX I
88 IB] Be ply BUOp 00 OF BBY 4z ‘AM yNOQe-puNOr = UT peuTeRgo PUT

Pe BOTTAMOS Aayyel eq Of Sulvas YOM BTY4 Juspnas akeroae Bud OL
“Rreuo

, Oot UT patezue eq Ferm Jeuy UNG eyZ JO UCTATSOR Yours ayy? ST eTtUL
ST CMT OT BTenbe ,OT S887 \Se CO] OT EsonpeP 0} eawy ex STUR pus avod
“INQ £hO Loy Yom OOF SeqruytM UA? SMO 4uUTIGd eu atozaragl, *prear0}
OB of (ore UT) Sojznut@ teq wr4xe LE seq ays stremayds eyy UT eZnBTT
pequtzd ay; payowar ung sy3 el0zaq ‘BNY] ‘peln’tyl aa se saznuyM OT O4
PaUnoie BOOU 284} TH+ MY T°G WOTZ woTzom sjung eu, "Sz cay “OT PIE
SG} UO BEA ROTA TsO UCOU UoTalesIH oya ABYI BTiawsqde aqy worl aQoU

ee “aTdwere pro *Sny vqg uy uNg ano 03 yDEG Buzwao ‘arosazouy
"pao zs
ciapun ATIe@sl[o 24 ger puB QUBZZOdMy Area ST BTU "YoTMUastD UF UICg
Stm UCsled ay. axaTiag axnw asnf puR YAITq JO JUsMOW ayy, 4noqe TIY
qeBroxy on SnyL *oxAoqE UMONS BE azz Yoyatesdg ut pesserdxe y4rtq Fo
Out O44 3NQ “YAITA FO soBTd auz JO owt] ang ssn XSAST om sudTITSOd
sgouvtd Supyqetnopteo Usa “UCTZFsCd uoccu oyR O} BayNuUyW puy sasITZep
FO LSQUNU PaLeTNOTeO ayy ppe PTINoOw ae “(3u8tuptz) t9ZUT ernoy ZT

Pus UOOU Usomzaq “avyT ‘uoouU Teqzu perIMdsoo G5Zr1qQ at} vaHO UT
*UOOU alOjlag PaLIno0O yUsAS |3uQ eSMuDdeq GoNpep Of aaABU FH
"Pie qengny s6 uoTz;sod uoot ayy woz quTiOWwE BTTy qonpep puy .0T
Sen ok “OT BYU3 SBaTt aTIITT w OR equnoue YyoTYA woTzom Away FO O/T
ATTO3u0W eLOFTZ OF OP a& TIY “485 40 4SF O81 OT Tt 12e CaT & wor
(NOtwueeTD 38) pro yeTany woou TT, pug'Sny uoou worz peTTedwry ung

345 3042 PUTT ee Lost Pig “Bay coz atdwexe ano uy arojareuy
6 *{qeuetd Yorks TOF poinesvow oo Of AUT

--- PAGE 8 of 260 ---

[OCR] +dGn aatS 09 OTReTT sre nok 4umg O8 4TNOTIIIP

DUE DeqZoTTUwoo alow Yor SemMoOCoG SMOTTOL BY, "UOUBST 4EITT styy
f9}90W Suaow TTz Aq ‘4UapTIS Ivap ‘zZayaIny SuTpaaoord arcyag
“MSE BIT BATT yoolt pinoa dleto sAtlepyuey “AleLoowed LAO LOST pire’ Sry

JO atdurexe ine uy YZTTO FO |AMUTM SPTUTTOP O44 wOUH FOU PY nom om
Sutsoddng ‘ATIsereauiat Gat Tequa pue UST Ysano0 uT Zep 4¥ey4 JO UopuUOT
FO UCTYTIOU uoGU voy BHeZ ATUMFY By “IUGT Pug Sny sO GTamexe ano ut
Pip om 3B rauzqTeu payan[pe ag yOUURO aSeo 76q3 UT sqauBtd euy
"URI tO eyz FO FUSMOW BU joOeRZeP pues sus
aug AZTS9ST Of ynoge OF oF moy PUT; TT#ys am jIed rayet 2 uy
"aD O adaoupItyD aug Jo ashy wuy uo “ening, Qg esnoy puooes |uy fo dno
aug uc S$ Bijaq 853 {quepusoBR auq UO Sats gerSap o 1Of gxeuo ogy
OAS aa COTTA |g ROU TOU OD va BELO UT “UMOUX BT U4yTya ZO awya aug
pepisctd 'qrvyo yugta B yools Of mOUR C4 SAY OA TIP 3ST STQY

“zoerqzp Bupyaom ‘qyupweg sy-s_ ye useyy ses Ogntg
IGE eTauexve *Sny xo uz “uoTZ;eOd $47 TOF peqTrsuos eq pTNovs sTyy
“shep og Aceas sxeas gol 1¢5 SuCTyTsOd €,o4nzq sents yorum 4ne ye TyCCA
Tiles vo S{carayy, "AraaoosSTpP 4Uao3aT SRT Cf BNP ONT® JO VOTIFEOG ayy
nos eA? JOU Gp sTLleweyds s,leByvdey plo ang qQeuQ eqyou ALppurTy
“(ef "8tg oes) ‘sa0uvgetp Buyin
-SeeB Us UO LayeT cTay aytutyep @ 8Q O04 BADIA [Ltm STuL *32eGO Ay
Ul gouetTd ou3 fo ontTea mC CF YYSU USTs ouy and cy LTIez you og
“uBpPTY redUues
SY s1974% OFT PUE JUTIeD UVOM}SG FON SeOUX 'ATTVAperS suo awoosq nos
edoy tT yotum fo ‘araSol[o138e peoualizedxe ayl “sreuutBao xox uoyaeots
-T9lkopyT Jo asodind eyz aos ATeray vt BTL "Usts Sursepm eyy apyeyno
eu, Ud HISRW oH “(paxooTIaao zou are Aa} feui of) Ieedae Dey. syew
OL ‘eGnou ge ut uappty of fuBTs 044 ¢C euos usas sAey om BY
“(apazze IOIITw-XSeTFal-Cyoa) |30cs aseuy 4e are siauRTc
you sueas ATuo 47 ‘@TaTSTAUT Sa¥ YOPs pha 4oeEXe voTya suoTETSOd
AIVlaueTA OUTT TTeus ag UO 1aieT asNeoan oTAQISTA want TT@o rT ‘aAode
PoUTMIAZaP Se SsssNoy eg} PUES SZeUeTA ayy JO suoT I TEEd sTOFSTA SUF
Butuyeyuoo WAItg JO yuawow eg TOY adoosoroy Io Lreqo ayy suRen STUL
‘gaeqo xPper € alr v SY ey FIeYO aTBupe Io ysreyo treme ayy
“qoafqns ufew gnO SY UO Faget 4aar, Tleue om yoTtA 845800
PIOF-OATS ON Yautedy pue Zreqo pegeorsord pue yteyo xTper Pututepzuoo
_SAIBYO |BTQnOop paTTRo-O8 ASUTEse Syreyo aTSuys are g¢ pue ow ‘es
“ENS) FRTVYO aTSuls TTeO Tleys om yotym ‘syruyo TTemws sq} Ur
“SLEGIOD Layz0 IOJ BTQBTITeAR 20808 AUX LTIe pasu a4 ‘ae To araqaaos
many SORTS ZOU Og ‘pavoT4UeW Se Beano ay, JO azts ayy payrasut 3nq
g€-Sya Jo fdoo @ apem aaeg I SH "Big UI "Sasnoy azTsccdo aq, roy pasn
Bo OM Bentea ewes sy} esTeOeG ‘4aeyo ay} Jo apts suo aanseau ATUO
mines *SBNOT YORe TO] QuUBTI saoweySTP ey} sinseou aok 4eyy Inyarao
alos OG *1OR8T pauteTaxe eq TIta qotqa esodrnd vw roy gavyo euzy Fo
2P789TO ey2 UO parsquea eIP ole mst} PUNoZ au Se RAaNTRA oasq]
“BUST sO09Ssk BT ESTOY pucoss ayy pue Bucl i gore
ST BBNOY ASTI any -BuUCT ,»Go,sl ST asnoyu uyZT aqy fBu0y 100922
SY PSNO YITT ayy “Bucl ioo6e ATWO Bt cy “Bta so seve" YAO, BUL
‘aBnoy ayy jo yyBvat any se oO io BE
$02 au raqjzeB03 antes e604 Butppy ‘eLat7 ut 1SPo0 pue OFITA
UT Saelsap of aaey aa'snul “OB3xrTA O 09 Tenbatmowy ou SB ‘By Cot OF
TT :

HPPPRPEPHABRAA BH

STta “\GloS Sends O87 OF OF C81 SH HE WOAZ fete BesnoYy eBeq, Fo
vsBuaT eqp ‘seosta’ pig ous foarty sufequeo 496 PUL "9sNON pry ous
AToayzoadser “Y9g 9Ns Usaeajoo UsDPTY UBTS B oABT om OP BTE UT

up Suet

omgs eg FO sre sasnoy ay TIoadoe 990N "daaidap ge OST2 ST asnoq
eng gO yaBue{ eu “uappty uLooTIGeD FO uUdTs ayy sAeY om ‘BNTIeNdy zg
ge apus pud BUTIZZ1TBeE 22 72 SUTaaa YOTuM asney uyp 3qd “att ‘apts

@I7TBOAdO |IA UD ‘*saelZep ge PLO? [Ly SOs] go saerzey g par LaauEd

FO aaerBep og ‘tupmen jo soatZep g tSF yQaUET 3 UATE sul “wesenyeo
wapPTY TaouvD JO UBS ayy ST aleuy, ‘Oay 2 Bt YRTT auy jo Gano eu, pue
Fupuey 2E 8T aenoy YIOT 94} FO Gano oyy auug PUTS ow ow Sty uy

“389OT GEM YT Jeu BuTHUTUR ‘USTs 2
ZOY yung Of QUBPNZe ALE ZUBA FOU Cp [ *uOFAUUETGYD sacge suzy TOF

UOSBAI 302 St STU PUG YTBUD ALBUTPIO ‘uOMWMOD ag asn O41 UTSaq an

488fF004 BIozzUE ayeoT{Tdwoo you of Tepro ut ‘azansuop ‘AOTGuSs TLeXs

Qa SB Spoyszaw aus GAta PUT JOU TTeqs aa ssCT Butwaas Bw VoONE

’ "senoy 944 30 adsno

au} US PAaROTOUT 9OU NBR weaves arTaqi ST 4% wouH ay “BuTqZon Buran
SFAL *tayzeS0 [le Fupwen sstu ATSuywaes oy *“Taq}O #42 UO tedUeD
pug aPTS auo uo BNrnel ABS aaByY aw asndy yons jo dann ayy vo pues
eBnoY ano UT ATeayeTdwoo IBaddestp 10 [tes 63 Bupyo® si searS%ep og jo
uaye@ OTOUM B OLTYa B UT aud Yay} PUTT TrTpus am *SuotT seerBep gs ag
eu Laypyoue pue Buoy searZap git ATuo sy ssnou ev agtiigempe avuy ur
‘gognoy BNOFIBA ONG FO |ZT® 39Yy9 07 He AOUedOTOBTp eug reBBTq oy
Uptve INO FO TORBOOT ayy WOIZ UZLTQ B42 Uta ABME OTE om TauQIAL et)

"SuoT ssaxSep og 90 p{Nom sano yous ‘royanbs aug vo URTTO e oaty

PINGm 9M TT “BayIBA IT3qQO |Uty O3 parTadwoo agtioy auo fo uABusT any
‘ooeTd o4 FO SPAgTABL PsTiso ‘seynuym puo sserSep so requ eg TUpsep

@ 4y FO ytnoe 10 gon arOyertey4 ‘royends ag. 3e@ LOU Puy T4ITd JO

sowtTd ogy 3a adcosozoy B Q0aqD 94 OATY OM 4DTY Goes BNR OF |Ng

*BaoSTtd pue anitrerdy ‘urootiaes ‘sntreastsag “oTdr100g
fexapy ‘o8xt, fooy ‘zoouep ‘pupmen ‘enzney eya satay wory Butz
‘ames au} ShzaTe BT SUBTS au3 TO UOTIBQOI 34 1eN2 uses eARU OY

‘LOOL Pag’ Sny uzoq aAFQuu ZO HEAOsPOTOY eYyR Tes aacoe sUoOTPETNOTYO

vSnoit) wag)? punoy em Be ByeUe{A amy |oFTA MOU TTeus T pe Sta UT

“g7eyo ony UT Ss2euetTd sya Jo BytoeTd Tergoe ayy rep¢e daqe

“87U3 OP OF mOU FO ab ele NCA SBATUN PaagoId Zou Op asSRald
“PIBMASBG pus PIuaIOE STUY Cp uvo HOA QeUy O8 eraq ATepeTAwOo yno
PeXIOM aq PTNOUS sOTORS UMO INOA JO Based TeIsAeER !X70m BUOY
‘ATTBQUeM BINETS aysueld rsyQ0 TTy *YOOR oy} UZTm Op of aneq sAEaTe ev
gv uons ATPTGer aaow syauuTd Usa SAUITIBSOT asg taTnx pucoss
"By ceweRde oti UT PeyUTIO ST yoTus UoTZTeB0d uoou sy} pessed 47
SOUTe Oper SRY YaUGTA Suz UOTIOW 912 PPE am (aNT], UopuoyT UT pageant
“PE oOWTY FRITGQ} WOoOU Iezy!s BrMN|50 UZITO BYR UsyHs "uoTzTsod 6 ,emTs
UOOU BAaUoRaT AT T[TpUN ayem C4 Sey qauPTd ay4 JUsTeAOM ayy TONpAD aM
(owt, UOPUOT Of aT YZITQ TBOOT ay3 Butqenfpe raqze) uopuoy cou
@lOlaq “1ITqQ B XOT apReM ao 03 ST adonsorOY V UatA feTRI UTE
*SpeuRTd eng Buyrn®zz pnoge umouy aq Of St LYys TIe oT FFUL
“QIeYo Io OyUT UOPpuoT yo uozpayeod woou ayy requa ATawTs
Om OS Paepsel yuauzenfpe cy *,ge¢ OFIdoog “gT_Bs¥ Cuoys BE pag’ Say uo
UOTITZOC 47 “pPrearoy GaAcwW TeAou 4y ‘operdorqexr tod esaynuzm ¢ JO
aBeraay ce uO SaACH YOTUM epCy GyUOCOR ayy aaeBroy you yanm ay
“,85 UD OF 98 4AITTaQ Yo UOoTZFeOd AxXtioTay gowxe |y4 sh SoATA eTyy “wooOU
B1059Q PaLlINooO Yuasa ayy asiwosg “pig “Bny so voy zTEOd wOoU eyF
MOIS AT AOnpop pus OT ‘at; “oNTea owes oyR oan gecf ea pura pesds
ames 83 1B PevAcuw un¢e sti Leug Loqmawar eu ',@g ST BdoUarasTIO aul
ot

--- PAGE 9 of 260 ---

[OCR] 843 Sutpnrour ‘srauaTG ray,0 3u3 ITP qitm op om few ones avy
(ee 3ty) “woTyysoOd suvpunm $3f Zuteq sw
qeuetd yg 1e8jue om BIGNZ PRE SNTHA TeuTZ 943 8B Ba0B8TT (BZ o4 UTBIVS
em SB085q © OF OTCA STG9 SuTppy ‘(SedsTZ o) asnoq 499 an} Jo dsno
aun ef auepuN sntaa IO acters Tp eyQ Syueseiaai antes syuy
“16BEop t8n sont? stuy ‘og fa 37
Sutptatp fq saerZap ojuy yORQ aATHA STU UIT 2H HON “SagnuTH Ssyussoader
ose antl zeet spug ‘seqnuyw ogUT Bupyzsrosa PoOuUTNy SAVY OM BENBoag
“ees = OOF : BSeTST
“SSETST = Ber X Teg ten seaTS styy
*poqgduayye aq you plnoys sqno 4yroNs 10.
SSengTssqns pul youeTd Goes yYye PeMOT1TOF ATPITAZS eg 4ST LTNMLOZ STA]

"Q0g AQ PePTATP Sup SemTE Teg = x igeB em 7ySTs ayy
x 62>
049 SaNTeA TayIO ORL DUB FEL sus OF X Sutyoptes Aq ! “TEE = “OOP

SAL ‘STENO et4 TOF Yorypea asauy |yniyzeqns pue saznuTwicE
Ternbe ,To,g fseyautm sey TeNPo 658 fgoynut™ 909 TBnbe sestRep ot

pDupses Aq 4F a@aTom 04 posoorG om eAOQeE UOTPENDS oyy ayoTdMos o]
*(OBITA O worZ josTe asno
8275 a4} WOLT pernseen Bem SNUdA DENOY YLZT ey} uy read woTatsod
xX}PeI ayy UT asnesag devo asITE Sug esr ay “(Se08Td ¢ 02) ssTOy UIs
ayy fo dsto 7srFF ayR OF eNTes STU PPL Oa FF OUTF Om IS4TY “past oa
anTRA STL YT X "(sTeoS are OBItA TE*S 04 O3ITA Q WOT pue OFATA O BT
dso uvoap LemOl ayy asso STYR UT) deno ueoep ev morz Adue BT STILE,
SouUeSTE 304 YT L2°S *Ss08Td 22°48 JR Spta Pue Ssostd © 38 sut3eg
UoFye e8Toy GLE 942 fo S/T “ect £03 03 Sey 4} UTazeym uvoep xXTpYI 949
JO e2TS 3Q4 ST 16,8 SuROAP TerngeuU ey. FO a7TS8 aug SF B9a2230 OT

x 169%
" sites = |OT

(Rots sod suepunm ozut 4nd 04 xTper snus, Buysn)

ISTUR @XTT yOOT uotpenbe sy srequnu uz “43 13uunb uaougun euy 3Tt X
“y 0% Geno ugoep Ternyeu e woug Awae ST ZeUe[d @ eouKRgETp e739 SF OF
piuvoap XTpEL B ZO vzTs 442 OF BF UBOep THINZeU B JO azts aq} 3

TBaNnTHA ayy Ufeyxgo of WOTPVMdY OYA BT SISK
*sgcdind 4yeuq TOF
PePBALO -om HELE 90 CPUT SenTHA sHayy UOT Lodord 03 saz OF BABY OH
‘armed [erndosaryy O4UT Sasol 100 [Ile PePTATP saet aa 8B yon SH UT
*(Bigty Oo O49 TET Suzeq
tOPRBT ouy) OBItA Of OF BPUapYs pu OATA Og 44 BUTZaq 4eNQ UBNAP 9
worg ABak ,2E52 9F 9F SNUL “OSLTA Le°Le 98 8] FUEPUsOSe xj;per EEL
*(os7 9 09 Tenbe ST 1994eT
Ud) Leouws of 0} Ts0UED OF BOLE Spuezxe 4uyy wRosp Ternyeu ayy wors
48940 3% 37 stveu stu, ‘reouvp ES'og 38 87, Aanorey XTper «in
“eaaty c de spua puy e4qgTY OL +e suT@eqa 4eyy Weoap Teanzeu ayy
wory Agee (So8 OF FF BLEOM STUY wxQTT EST 7B BT SIeR xXTpet Ind
‘OSITA OT 04 OF4tA O WOT Spuegxa peuy UEOEP
Tetngeu oy} wory ABT Tf‘S SF 4 Susew Stuy ‘OFmtA Te’S 40 8F SnUaA
X}PBI ag aTduexre Ino UT ‘MON *ABHB TOTZRIN] ssai2ep OT Bpae Pue

| .
verdep og 7e IO Seaizep QT re 10 avaBep g de ButZoq uUBoAap TRrngeu ¥
TSMOT[OF SB Sy srnpsoord ey,
‘uBDeP HB WOT] 1G deta ayy Teuyya worg souRAsTp
guy uotTzpodoad yenm ay ‘AOw PTO AUB Batxy Zz OF SEO0STA “zZige woaz
Suppuegxe Sy seyR {495eE4D oF JO aeNoY ZZ, at} OFUT BIQTT GET 7e SF
voetTyTeod xTpeI AQ YO tua srey ejTdwexe roy aourd youueo a4 paeroyg yeyy
uy RF aoeTd nos Op erays 2 wcu sUTvmOT ZBqy uoyysend ATuo oy
(e¢ Sta) sasnoy OQ, sty OU, sBucTaq wotytsod eauvpunm Aq
Brey aIojotet} pue Bayay woug seme Budzs ¢g ef ‘rasanog ‘exatq ‘(adoo
“SG20U XFper) eSnoy ASITZ ayy UT eTaTIT UT ST UCTLTBOG XtpeI AQ SarRy
*satry wory ABMe SUBYS g 5} OBATA aynvoeg ‘ganoy GIS 842 OfUT SBu0T
raq sue, BTQ3 UOTZy90d suwpUNM fq OLOJeTagy, ‘OALTA Te"Ss Fe Te0Tpar
snus, PUT a4 ‘adoosor10y alduye ino uy ‘aldwexa Iog “BesTiOy auy
OLUT SeNTBA XP 8yZ UOTZTOderd ‘03 savy sau adoosoroy awepunm v UT
“ano puTZ WOOK TLeus NOA se ssaoosoIoY suypunw jou ale Alpenzoe Aévqy
}tW, Seacosor9Y SURpPUNM PeTTBO-op 4nooe nok youay sROON ABOTOIZSY omoR
"hp 2tg *gaarZap CT (asnoy & O28 €) Uedap youe ‘3u0t gevrBep oo Suze
eshoy Gows ‘pUEpUsosSYy sy} UO Satay O UZTH SUTZeq edoosoroy suGpUNM y
"sorry O U2JH SUTSaq Jeq, FZuTcr9wos Pueysrlapin se ,sUepURU, Iapuy
*sUBoeP TedNn}ZU SaeQzZO BYR Pus ,OUBoS|pP XTPVLy PessTCLV
gent om WOT Stredap IMO [Ted MOTPOUTISTP FO oRes aug IOS gn Joeq
“AT}USB eT SUTRA sTyZ Pee vy “BeerTep OT sev Uedap Ternjed y
‘aySus~t up Area suedap Ino any, Pure yyRuaelT yUarajjta JO ela Basnou
Tno inq fasnoq B FO UOTE TATp ysed sory? YB} GT “aT ‘gqoerze Ut
TUTTO TS Butqzowoe st uvoop eV TTRO oa APN Weep, JO auau TeTNAar ayy
JaaALasep sug pue Buct sssiBep ol ALTen Ie BT esnou @ yone JO pxtyuy
eupg ‘USTs = a2 yySueT omas ayy JO ‘Buct easr%ap of BT egnog yoRSs
satly O IOf spam ST Yeu YaoeYo B UT ZO TOZenby sya UO ape BT zeUZ
qreyo @ UT “OT eueow ATTeNZOe UBoDg ‘eueoepD yNoge arey Yeads J
"STUZ SPBIYSTITT oa Q°FTE UT
"GUBYdOD QATZORUBOI 9} FAP OS PUB
azteodds SutAT auo euy ee ugBuet sues ey. so aie BaeNnoK LZeuyOo Su
‘Bucl seetSap gt 3} uvoep ouo pues Juo{ BesiZop g¢ sy ssToq PITG3 SUL
“Buot ,O,fT & 1 UBOSp euo pue ysaueTut Baer3ep BE St ssHoy puooss aud
eae sTends upoop ouo anu4y ! eqore SpUusyXo asroy 4sITF euL *2u0T
16E,9 8b Weoap Io yzed prqtTy eUO YoRs oLOTareuy pues Buot »SS,6T ST
sendy ateT oq, ‘Suet 10802 STOFSTSYR ST _~UBOAP, FO YIVd pIFYZ YyoORS
Buct ssar3ap ez st egnoy UIT ott *saaahap 62 sTends Qr's “Sowtd &
penvesq ‘Tote ;OPo6 FO S4aed soryg evy Fuct .o,.6¢ Suteq ‘asnou
U20T oud ‘arosazayy ‘Yoee ¢ AQ ePJATD MOU aw sonTek osey, “ADBaITe
esnoy Youe fo ygSueT ay} epTegno en} UO parozte oABYy o& Se '2TE UI
“yous sired Tunbe ¢ Oqtt Sasnoy aATam) InOd aPTAtgG !T# doss
1484 SuyeoTTOS eyy epyw sz ‘eospord TTuqs eu suo
VBITI au, ‘4reayo auapumm aul “4ueuiom UATA 8y4 JO SS Pe yrwuo
XTPer eyy wWorz ATaToes peorpord ore Avyy *ATZUeseId arey MOTTOI 9uttt
S9LeG9 asartq 1xau auj Gh eNeW Of DASN Usaq SABY SRAPT ssSau1 Tty *952
SuoTSoe xeTjaz jo 'yse0yde, FO wET syZ ‘sotzdo ATzeTHoOTWIId ‘sopsdqd
fw we Gn petpags © ‘{THpatey oq Aum ,BUBSIOW Viet, JO meT amy PeUS
ew uO poumep 37 ABp ano usyw "Fu peaord jeyy 30q ‘weyy pegseag JT
“BQUTOR sat Yseues JO uCTAuaM PUMNOJ F 4xXaq UUMIeH BUI "PpaereAooBTD 34
P[noo ypterg ro, gaBueyo Agqezeqm s,utoOd TeuoTITPPY PUTF OF PETrs
I ‘uosred sry roy equesaa Zo ARtage yQrcy Suyrq sqgreyo Gay asaut
‘adoogsozoy [eucsred # Suyépngse usaya co JayrUD ayy Ut SeaTuuyo yroay
BUTIq Jem yxvuo passarBOrd puv x}Tper e uy s_goadae yo 4oT @ eAST IT
yUsnoyg, usae yeu yno puncs uous y ‘ASoTOTzey LeToOWeUTZ 0% BOF{QUSzZNe
Tetoeds BuptouTd etyym # z0; ABOTOIABY Yooo patpny~e T Faqi¥

joo? f BIGQgo oUUPUNM sty FO UoTPRTMOTMS ayy
eof eu sty: tt uosse,

eT

i Ei

--- PAGE 10 of 260 ---

[OCR] Ore Aout 34 908 puy suoT;rsod pazorrym zougc 943 Tie 3no era8iy
‘oga ‘uctateod poxteritm xEpex fq se08td us*ZT
34 SZ08TJad BIOTT SET 2B XTPal srem "Satry cote Fe wOTITSOd no
~e0rryM xtper Aq sSjostger oBitA 42°42 JO xPper zuepusosy iene), sp st
UT uoyyyaod paroritm xtpaz fq syoatyar oat ST’ol XFPeBI ung
ryLeyo xPper ag} LO BuOTITEOd XeTser Buy
~HOTTOR 049 savy ea ‘ge °3ty edoos¢zoy mmo jo sotdmexe maz © 3x4 OF
‘ATTEQUSH AToQaTdMCD 47 GP TOA AIGH YA OL PASM ALIYTT B QB ACA UAH
"perysep FT SsuoT|RosTyeasr JO eTaeL szatamco.e TeermnoA exwx feu noz

"939 4 OF 4 ” a OF

u OS on 0 » OT
SaynUTE o> UT yoaTFear soynuTa 3

aw 9F uF

» 42 an §

» 82 seearkop 3
sparop 8£ uy syoatzer aaxBep [  anuy

“og 09 AzeTeusmatdmos sfzate ino

B1ATI Hast
oFdroog saplenoy
anyxeqit3es urootrurs
urootsdep anyreqyy pies
BHTzready oTdroog
sa25T¢ BIQyy
sayiy OBIT A
(OL3ha)  —- Shanley oey
TUymaDH zraoueg
Teoueg qFutwen
oe Sniney

o8staA Uy B2o2eTFezZ Bajazy Jo uBts ayy

ISMOTTCS BY INDO BUOTFOaT FAT FqL

"Boalfap o¢ Tenba To°cy SNTd 6ES'pT saneoaq ‘TuTwaH To‘STt YU a YoaTTaL

Teoueg SS'pt ze zeueta y “og Tenbe OT’sz sntd gs*y eBneosed ‘oSrts

go uste ayy. ur 1OTeSe +2 SPOSTF AI SatlIy ~OSep FB paqunyys uoTy.Tsod

xypea 4q ZaueTad & eTduexe acg ‘BaetBap og 03 fAnvezususTdwoo sfeaTe aT

XeTjar aul "Setty sarBep QO MOIg ABme ST Zatetd +i) aoreysTp any ucdn

fRepuscap SF STUL “Ussvey agg FO 4280 eRtUTsap Say,oO suos Uy TOLAITm 19

VOeTsel TIT 37 Wall}, YosRoy 2NQ UT ereumamOS Paced eT JYaueTa BP Veta
FEN PezenacusTp anay [ “ean Bw BIApeoord ayy smoys gg Ww “BTE

(MG ) f2¥uUO Petorsyu xPper euyL
III tossaq

“ZOABIRYM BUOTZLETHOLTeO Ssaty UFR UCTZOaLUOD ou sreYy PUG TUsMOUeUa

pUeTaT{IP ATSITZuS m4 TM ITVel sary ucssay “40aefcas oy4 O4UT Tay4y41nZ
BuyoF aroreq apatduoa syreyo auepunw [TervAsH sxe :YIOM ewoy

Haren

SNC IOJ qUSTOTZINS at ofa} Pl SeoeTd ssayy ye sgoueTd pet ea JT 3P

6wes ey} ale SUGTyoe suL “SPOUETA GZatq xX TpEA vUy wOIZ ButpyuT3tsc

B40a;J9 XaTjer oie $3008 Sss0u4 Je PooTHpord sre 4eYyy BUOTILYTIIT

a4R BUY] ‘alaye pezPZoOT syauBTd oU ATTEetgod vie za, speuETd

euzpunm ayy ynd aa araysm AaoRTA ay 3H 4ZeYyy SoTZOU |xey aszaTd

st

Cee e Peer e PP PR ERED. @

‘engue seztanor, fo ao,
B PUB 004 Juorm awooeg 4eNM GRuGas 943 JO HaRwp VG_ ‘gunows ezeucT
srodord sq Aq Buoiga OSTY are UPTAUITOL Buyiq TTeus ea YOUR Iaq20 Ony
5U3 PUS SzuUspUsoSe eUEpUNnW ayy ‘SRuUWpESOSYy zey30O 543 TTe ‘aarSeap ato
UTNZTM OF AQSTION ATUO TO YoaLIGOUT ST YUBPUADSY By} aSto TI "Buorys
ATTSpOsdse eR PUBPTEAsEe Se} SpremoOy 4SEO BRevETC JO wejsuy
"Laylogs aanuyw B@ weosp #uO ayRW UOTSTATP Leug UT TaAO 4ZeT ST aqnute 2
aszo UT “3061709 sdst.o tnod saet, OF [njareo eg synud ¢ CTU, SsasnOU aud
SUTPTATP Usige. *9reqo wau puprq & Prpxem fq Yoo Lem 19q40 AUW poTTtioer
aq ZouuvO YOPGA FlOH acy FO goed ATce ayy up TOTIe AUBTIS eB 02 anp
pus 07 Buzyuutoq worz ocotmy sodoossroy upeytso Buyyyu ueva aaey Tas
-fu J "}0aTT0O ST At Jaugeua 9a8 02 SaWTy aeryy UPA TO adtuq woTzeT
“hotBo youe Toa O8 09 ySnouese eztseydms younes T*xayzO ayy wodn yt TN9
SF Buty suo esneoeq ‘dew aryiue 3ayi yBnory, WATT. sep~rzas zt rO119
euUo oF HOA USYm FET FAG PUTZ WOO’ TItm NO, “SIOIZe YUsAeId 04 wUCD
ore #2uUTT) a8aul Tly “uoTITsoc esuepunw {5 sSuctaq yauetd qeotpex 4te3
“Teo @ etsum Nok sTqtay dew eu}z ye x0OT Sten Be yen, os fsuCT3ISsOd auep
-UNMM LOZ 90 63 BUN 47 SR SeTPOZ BU} SPISUT ery uO yYreM osTe on ‘oDUT
+ga20dmT @TIATT FO ST eyy ye ‘Sadoosorouy TENpTATPUT UT Ssesnoy UpERaeo
UT TIRt 02 sUacdduty JeueTd ou ssnuoeq pasu you ket Lok Santua 9T9 JO
emog ‘passtu suot oue ATButs pern8ty ag ysnu aznoy UOeR "Atom eIyxs
FO 10T Bo WITH Ave S50P STyyZ "asAoY uvoeS strepunc yoRsS FO ozts ony
{9MT3 Joes paznStz} appeuy ay, uo suyeqzuon reno Sta LeuTr aus

“(ahi U2Fe PUBDUEOBY |y} FB PexXTeZ) SUIzR{acd suBpUNM TOF

PaledarG ATL@poaas 4uTtr wq} UT ateyy 47 29 1Ua om pu uOTrtTsed auLpunmD
8}} Pue Ba59Tg_ ,TOoSe 492 wm veliTwA t1OO Buypppe wank, “Xtper saceta
1SIoST YF SUyAaq ottapunr oBr7A FO Ukoop pzyyy any *euspunte o8rtA Jo
Usoep PITY, |uy wor Aewe 12959 Sy JUepusosy suepunw ay aToyersecy

“Se7;NUpM Cpog STenbs OO iEpac 488 am ‘saarZap ory wer Saturny

"so nutn S uesszdar enTes styl ‘epse = x
'ooS + eesete = x
‘oO@ £0 paptatp sep Santa zpy = X

ix izpp = 68h | 009

7303 om SeqnutTM@ OUT Peuzn. fx '242'2 = 6'@ tOt suoTsrrodore

“4608 SF OFUT SCO OF SPU YT UBOSD wy Zo NWuaT any ‘Suprcnsrs

ayy OP Bu StoFoQ YOITE OUTJOP Of BABU SABMTE am STUY ‘Savetg LooLe SF

Be0STd iFTpST MOLT Spuazxa yoTun ‘uRdaD PITYA aT} ut OsTe WoT TsOd

suepunm..4q Tlezy yen 37 ‘(erty Of 93 OF “Oat spuezxa uRdsep patyp eT}

UBOOp PITA |Ty UT St OITA Lz*Lg asnzoog "HS0STG ge"Ze PuR saosTd &

Usouzo0, C210 Saenoy yZe e4 OUT Tier OF Sey GT uoTZTIOd auupunR fg
“OBITA LE°22 28 PLIST Sa USTIA ‘quepisoey 274 |4e3 ay ‘ed eTdmerg

“xeasezy O38 pPInoys sBuyyy eltym B Iaysyy “pajosdys ep uco se pood ew

Suyop ere nos UITH 32v98 Of ShVP g NOL SeNes aP FY "ATOM PTTOS sseP

fe yNOog ot Be xu, edeoBOIOY PTOy~G spardmos suo axew oO, “ArBsSaoeU

¥ ets PUR BoUaTIed *1USII YT OTP NOs Tanzayu see o4 eimSty Texts

OX} sredmoo pue F{eaanes way}, 4~lom few nos req3 O89 AT ZVsTICD pasaqgue

pue PSINSTL ATarow ale s1aqqo ayy ‘nos djlar oy suoyzzzeod erom Om}

exen TTeye J “nos zoz op of Bupugcu aa proces exeyz aeqte woz ypsed
etuepunm Ac nOA JO} sqatetd aud Tle axem 64 UTesI vy uz zou st 37

a “epO; ay PU UeAEeU-pT7 8yy OSTa FUY JUEpUVOsy eTd

--- PAGE 11 of 260 ---

[OCR] : “TezeT uacus

aQ [Ih# On 8N3 CeTR pauTeIQo Sem Awepuaose passar$ord ou, mop .

cet € OT TI 92 rE PS ST BT TA SS ST TT 61 2 SB SG 499 ‘4das

OeT @ Se Tise sf OS OL Ef TA SS fF 14 BT ue OB FY 434 “adag
ee ON we COBY BPO ALUoIay BnUdA sient

Of FO f Bor 2DG CO PE ET CL UOT .wzeuoze a4 TA ST O48 “2d0R8

6TH & Y6b BOG BS BE eT LT UD T TG UO Ss 4BOTA ST Uz ides
Zagteanp urnzag anuein "gcay UloK ung

*sinoy pe FO A¥p B go g/T uTBSe Bt ,ec yo
' “guevzen(pEe uopuo
WY TO"B 'UFtTG Jo Auemon ayy LOZ AEP YEUT ZO sUOTATSOd AICLAUTT
ayetdmoo amy arnsty TTeqs AOU om *ACET Pag 4eaHny uo anove saop sTUL
‘pagentpe Ataadoid [Qgt 43e Lequaidag fo Be suOoTaTsOg ATeQoeueTd ayy
AST Of BABU. om PTO srRak 99 SeuGooq SAT QUU ata eyep ani -up
“StU} Op yOu Op F YOM Teop,OeId OT ‘TaAemoy suoTaganb ut wet 24
O95 juMowe PTNOM 429 MIRTIeZOT ayy uy sowvape eSezaau ezecotjaodod
SUR 94BA PUT ANT BA STI |ReLOALSzUT ABM om ¥YIOM aUTZ ATOA tog
. “\g0 PRE To Uaemzeq STLeEF yer iTO_U 6
enTBs euq ssttoso ‘pash aq Aek 9uo Lauite ‘.e¢ Uc Jo BOT teuyeqao
aug ssuyete ‘out, e144 ios Sano"u ¢g Jo Bol eyz pasn aagy y :830N
“pre BAep O Bieaks 22 9} aAt}eU OY. are uooR ay FO uot ysed
PaeSsersOIG TENOR |UR ST Soe TE Seynupurttsaas#e
18g SarHap +r 520T
190 Sa08TE St
1O6T Uy0R"Bny Jo Stxamaude ayy uT waaAzF ge yoTmusary
Fe UOTZTSOd uccu 944 WOT SE*T ZONPeP Of vaey su ‘aroTezauy
(8F¥aiavouds & ,Toweudey Jo
e8ed 4sel eq uo estou, “Boy

ou} WOIs UYE}GO BT BTUZ TTB) *1Se,T = gso0'7 Bot
OOBL = 165 YE Bot
6822 = i8TorT Sot

*aBTo PT

TOGT Boou yqOe “Bry OF UOou maSe ‘Any wor UOFpOM S&S, BOON
",9 SoomtyY ST TOOT UF0E FSNSKy yoyausery ucoU biCeTor-
"£2
SQ OF PTO ereok Lf see aatgeu aya dep 9yz a0j 10,‘ gzet DIC senany
toy wooW ayy FO UcTIATSod passarRord Yenqor su4 eq Tit# yTnser sql
*gtonou puv AUP 4eu4 Ic¢r wcoy ogy eanSTE oa ‘aidwers we aaTZ oy
"BEST ze0f 42 Oo pr
qeTany soz suctazeod ouq SuzatS ey atyy pue anys uazte woot aru RY
TO°6 38 TOBT Broo yendny ‘Aep airta passoiZ0rd BURIzeZ auopyysod
TenZoe EUs UTTICO pus WOT Ow By;_ UT 4BS Bano ¢ RaUETH Tioga ULTM
HIV O38 ‘TCS wice 1atSny s07 strameuds ano FINSUOO am ferozereul
“MOOU etozeq 4ag BxNOU £ IO. euUTy LOPUCT AY TO°e 1B UIOg Sem SAT IBU
OUR MOUR Oy “ALIEIO XTPRI aN, Pa}oars oe ustiM PIP om so tem ones
313 pesoord oy ‘eaTaeu 4eUR tO} SAO0BGITOU PassoIBoId RB yoata O4 aSN
02 sARq aa fap 8u2 ST BTUL "82ST IO sresk ge aq prnom LOST "Eny Fo
Q¢OS -BTST 20 arves ZT ag PTNom qengny fo wide “eIEt zo szeak
Z1_ 80 PTTOs yIoT ‘arvak Ou} ao pTnoa uggs ‘xvas auo aq pTNom u3%
Qensny “Orez iTOSt Pag zenBny Treo pue uo pre sanBny moxzy passed
ATTunzoe aazy sfap Aue moy sinBqz oa ‘gest roy fas Tost prg “Say
UIOO eBATZEU |U4 IO 4uByo passeiZora ve axau om Uagqa aroyarany
"S20 AUR @8n 4cU CP am pUe AIOM ZNO LY syTawerz asn you op eM
. "siTnsar ya oy Ssatza
SU USM JOU Faq NATH ABTA Of AuSTITe oq sew Sayy *rnee auoB esau
SPOUFem TeyzO YFta SySa_ “esti §,UOStad 914 Jo IRAs aun Supztrerbs se
StIewayde ayy JO ABP suo eSN Sa FIBYO posversord vo ayew 0% repxo uy

zt

TPP O ERP CREEESSES S 5

‘satduexs uo pestgovad eq PINoUs pues QueyrTOdmT st ator
"pezoeta SP eacosoTON ayy |mtA 70G3 Uodn ST ZT PUY “WoOpuoOd
uy Hep yxat sy4 Jo AY “UTD 9 yg TO yATTa Jo ABP ayy FO WOOU, 29470
“uyo S 4 CT UTeZQO pwE UTM PT yg Byz OF “UTM ZG YS a83u3 OPE am ‘apew
04 ST sdoosoroy ayy YOTYA IJ aWTy Uopuo] SuTpuodsarroo au, 4e8 04
‘gi0jateyy “ucpUOCT WoAy BeNutM go Banoy g IO BaanutM ege Tunbs
‘uyu 7 Beauty seerSep Eg r4ua au ‘yoRrTOO aq 03 ‘radauoKH *UOpuoT wor
Aeae Sinoy g ATUSNOL URST PTNOm STqL "3894 VeTPT ram 41SG 243 TO kup
UTB4IeD VY UO Ad PL'G FB UrOQ Sem suoewos Buywnssy “sainute gt pur
ginoy = AT[wAZOR SINOY g JO PRaysU; VQ PINOM soUSteIIIY SUT, aqr
‘a'y ‘aerdep ted saynurm 7 JO ayer etR 22 SaoTZap atixe % 971 Asn oe
PEC WIS, oUF BON P[NOm Way, Of “GEEPTISN UZGz oUF UC PexToOOT ST AT
Bursocdang *peqyzoot st ustta 2O aozTG Inc YoTausetn Jo 38RE TO 4s aK
seaSep votym ge cue eteya ATI Njereo dn ACO, 03 aauy aw Tuetptraq
was, aya uodn peseyq SY (UOPUCT HZ G STBNDS ¥IOR man UCoN ro ‘amTy
Prepuezg Uleieeg BY 4 ATViba ucow ucpuoT) Sancy SG S} Saleig UrapseT
aut UT SB0eLd TT! TOY JUemLEeNn[pe UMNO ay. IeNy UT “MON “pageNnfpe ao
of ‘SaqnutR » JO amtz UZ WOTPETIEA B Sasneo "ip FO aay satZap yors
Ba9 UBS am BY “YOTMUBAID FO 48ay, aalZap UIOST aul uddn azty oTstoeg
pue sartdep gggoTt eq} ucdn owt, uteyunoy ‘rp FO 4say verZep wins 94d
uodn paseq sft swty Tetiueg fyotatiearp JO 4Say UBTpTreaN yas, ata ucan
pesue pu Yolmuseerg wotz Sinou's BT auTy peepuegg uszeqesey ;Supwotror
aq} Scyutetdxs pesetm J yOTaNssrtyg uey. BeoeTd roygo y2 Bupsrino9c0

BYZIFEQ OF BAP guanzsn(pse |uy aus Peseta [ erayse raydeyo aga ut
*‘eIOp}oo UAOUS BV ToTuuUseTD o,UT TSAO omT4 Sty. wsmng
afeule em ‘ranasoy AY gan'tu's ‘pig yenBny roy oye Beat “eSET ‘zlat
xasi yous epum azoyeroy; St 4522 ST ‘Ok 8% OTS TBOOT mY LE "IO"S
38 TOS Pag gernany 102 yrzyo pessaraorc au, atdwexs no UT shul
"urOg UM GUO Veta fUP YSata fuuy FO ognutm yoaxe aug z0z pue sep
WyItG ety Tos rvek yoORa Spe aq ren yy “Ages ATSATATABAGWOO BT 4revO
passorgoad g 50 uozyonpord on, “S4reyo pouoTyusw oAoge O44 TT?
YUZTM WOMMOD UT BUTYIOU Bey ZIBYO PasssTHoId ayy, “4oerTOO AT aaen oF
PaestoOTooxe 2g 4am sivVo yeeycord ouy Aum BF BTYUL “4xetO XPPEr eyy
MCI] PeoApPOId [TS are PslOii tw svepunm ogi pee pazroOrgym—-xTper 344
‘qrBqo suBpuTM ayy ‘UPITO ZO ZUeWOMW et, ye Burqyetxe ge sqyeuetd

8G FG BUOTITSOS JowXs |y3 ST. BaATH 1TeyO XTper 1O Teyeu |auL

ivuo pessaraord any
A ugBaaT

‘BUNTY TEOd PsOITTM STIATIeG 4Ou Op sngy “"saowTd
Iyaqy 7B 8a PTNoM szeueTd xpper JT Oe OBST IO yoR SUoTZySOd eseNy
*SRaURPTA FO SUOTITSOd TBUOTATPPRe OT UTe4GO aa Yng~ “NrOm |} UT s4stxs
TIE 2B eouaLlasztP ON “og 09 ArequeweTdmoo osTe ere faqy pus uMoYs
Se BUSTS ames aut UT TIey suoTLOAaTAaI aUL “siaueTd |any Jo sucTaTs
-od euspunw sug e4z4 ou BUOTZysOd xTper ey3 Sutsn zo peezsuy ATUC
‘qreyoO PaLOITTM XTPeI ayy Yte SB BaTNI ames aq} oan ay °arosaq
3nO PeInSTT savy em YOTUs FsEByO suypunm ey, fa suozzyaod xeTros

eu} SOATH 47 °BranjO TlH sR aouRyrodmy Tenba jo sy yrayo STUL

Q2BYNO POLTOIITW avapunm aqy

AI tosseaq

"(pecetd are Avy} stay yeayy mayy ye SupyooT znoygqa) FaSFr SUOP

--- PAGE 12 of 260 ---

[OCR] “Steq
JO YOTITSOG WAITS ayy Se td VS “ee eAzYy PlNow em PUB TE LO'eE mMosz
1IT 96093 ZONnpeP of OAVY FTNOM PTNOM SSBO STY4 UT “sayntya TT oq
PIG SINOY @ ayy SutTaaod JUaMSLOUy aul (ABP & TO S/T 3uTaq) Buty
payenfpe uopucy wg B 78 pertnooe Suysoddns uztyq aug FI ‘te flee
usa aAwy prom Bley JO UoTATsod UZITA TENzOw |yQ PUY sognutE g
aBaur JO UOTITEPY aug Bartnber id LO" He IW UOTATSOC Tost pre *3ny
yoou ING 4ey, Os *epredyoug SazyNuyw g oq PTNOM BINoY y e5ayg UT szeH
io uoTgom aug ‘Aep yeyy JO G/T IO ,6¢ US UOOU aLOfed parINosO 4aI7g
ag? 8S yonw se wy ‘udy "PoeByoegq SeqnutM yo eG PTNOw BaNOU FE aRayy
TOJ VOTO soy Usty “BaosST_ LZO'eZ F2 PIL SY} UG Pue saosTg tees 4B
6} 3} ‘Sny go pug oyq uo yeyy Buywnssy “qiztq Jo Awp oy uo apes
“QIzoI Fuzsow eq 4yStw ezey ‘loST Pig ’nBny asso 4834 rno ut Bursoddng
raTdvexe yBnoy “snoTAgO SY LOs¥eT ayy “UuCCU LeazH BT TesS quers ayy ZT
WTI Teremoucio o49 04 ONTVA B}YR PPE PU UOoOU gored St YyItTa xOz
@WTZ UOpucy Jy senpea pegentpy eu, ppe of eary vm ‘sadoosor0y yeD om
yoyua 20j skap Buyanp eperBory0or Suzsov sqgoustd puty om uequ !etyq eT
ABI suoyAeTNOTYS eB O27 uMOUX 9Q ZSTM Torys Ine asodrad Uo uoTtacew
Q0u PTP YT YoTya Surqy reuqouy *"HTos Stuy4 JO 429d ZeTT Tea 904 UT Yon
00% PasNFUOS sABY PLNOA 47 asMeseq alcjaq #1UR VWoTIueM 4yoU PTD F
‘zood 41aA 9q P[NOm S4TN8atl pure Fro ea OTNom
SLOTZSOd wR pue Sm ‘RH TOX BupuotsqoOderG Ano Te asta ‘ainuTW ay o4
#oeTI10D "OR Ano yeB Of seprO LY yTOM Sty} “Bnoryy OF 04 saeu aw
",00, 95 2 48 ‘o'N Tengoe egq BaAT3 cutu By snTd ,g an ¢ taxojereqy
"(19 OD E MOLT esed STYUR UT) VeaTZ enyea TemoT ey} wory parneven
SPNITBUCT UT Uaavag-Ptm eu JO sOURADY OU Biuasaicar anrtea STIL
*eegnuym By = x

: COOL OOPST =x
oor 44 PePTATP Zz Bawta OOF = ¥
iX : spuooss og ft: BainuiIm 2g, : Epucoas OO

ruopyenba

“Sa NUTo ¥ sasAom "O° aud SPUCOSS OO FO Spugoas og Haynutw g UT

“SaznUTM g_ BeACW "O“WK SUZ BPUDOSS OOS IO SsaynutM g Ut
TABS Bw BIOLStaN] “Raynupm ¢ Jo wotyow
UT PTS © Tite «STol SF UsrAeey~pyM euy JO wotyom ayy sseo Stuz Ut

i247 ADS FO “HH UB Bt “UTM g SIMON s 4 » e
(3 9D 2 FO “O'R US BF *UFM GQ BINoY fF TOF wUty TustupTs

TMOGE MOTAG STG@Ll ey% UT UsATS gatitea mma :spuo9es og
aynuym ¢ srnoy py Jo euy4y [TBarepte = suey edoosozoy uzpEyeo eB Buysoddng
“UBABER-DIN SLL JO apna TScel sty moTyrOdorG 04 st Op of savy nos TT#
SanTeaA ofa} JO On}, Uesmiad eg OF BSusdceY UITTQ Jo mt, TRateprs
Inos Butsoding ‘usasay-PTy aves 904 puR suo SaaTB omty Teorepys
PATLTUTSap. we ‘puvtueerp UF co ZY UF UIOQ ara MOA ZeuyoyM ‘aPNzTLeL
Aum Tol save oy} 3T ‘OR O74 FO ANTBA sy ‘BanTeA om9 04 4xouU 398
ewt} Tearepys 344 Of. s3ucteq 2BQ3 Ba_nutw VAT O2 saynUTM g WoOrZ
Uoswoy pry pouxe Oo} PROUS YOGA eTqul B etey nos aATB TTVGS T
JOalIod ATaynTOsqe WaaBat-PDIN vu qos uwo NOA Zax IaprO Ut :
‘$@m omgs 009
DUOP BT UPABDT-PTW OU] “SATPRU aL AOL “~Sst Pig tenBoy uo yuepusosw
pessargoid ay}, oF OTN] ‘HO4nUuTw OT VIATT OF 8 ZUBpPUOByY YooTLOS O43
en SATS Saqnutm 2 ISO BupRel “BAQtT ET'9Z BaOUS Zot Loy ZuUBpusose
pezuzza zno ‘ezozyazeyy ‘seqnuyy g FFO 3G TITH Oa xaaki yoRe suotgyeod
pessaiZ0i1d any ut ‘arosaieusL “opTe—UmOp ayy UO ABM amy FO PHO
pegnutA § sn SexuM sTUL "OSITA Lees OF poyenfpe cea yuepusoBT INO
"O@ITA SO‘'ZZ JURPUSDSe paqyuTId Tenjyoe ue savy eM LOBT Pag *Bny 10;
eTdwexe mmo Ul “woOTZTeeR PeSBarZotd vyg OZ YuUNoOuG euGE ATeA OU4
ABA JO og Nath Tite aa Bpuooasw Fe pue avynutTe [T UT Aakx FIO a19sH
em UByTS Juysetr aq}p FO UOFARBTNSTVO Teuyp~2tao mmo uy Butsoddna * pox
"BOTTI JRYQ SNTRA QoeXYS. s{NTOHQR ally JOU ALTRASN BT omyy TRazAapTs

6T

peguyid ayy 94 BupTSuopaqg JUuBepUaoSY ata Pte sasnoy JO sToeL_ aug ut
eUTS Ttazepts peyurad 6yg yeuy moux ap ‘peatnber st fem raqyo awos
quowzenipe Time @ ‘zosamoy ‘quowgenf{per ou sarTnDar vrozarzayy pre
BWI Tearepts ut ATZoeTICO PSINBTZ SEH YUsNOT YIITO BIY ssneoeq
a24uj30g 02 BABY ZOU OP am (YOFAUSSeINH WOO FO PeeeUT AY TO*B acs)
OMT} TOL Syu sulpy 09 Sy "Ushvat-PIy pasaarsord wy. pue LUepusasy
passarsoid amy JO peer pue (saeak gg “a*) StmNTCO oF eT avexe ano
uy Gn yunoo ueua ay ‘aatzou oyg FO SITT NR UT Teak auc aquaserdar
umNTOS yRandsBans Yowg *FUTOU O ING YFLyO Jo Zuswow yz fos uwnploo
au}. [varepts ayz [Teo pue (ePAITIeT aus) Ugrig ZO vowTA oyR TOZ
gesnou JO Tov, aqy axey ATGwTS oma fgrnSTj 01 2osroZ FOU YSna sa
TOTUm (Uesesy ETH) “O°R PUL QUEBpUuacCse pesser301aq any OF SE MON
‘p2 OFATOOS QT Hpramayde Si} UT puto; se Sst epou aUuL
‘sBoT witm Bupup owes |yy OP UBD ey "19 TA G2 St STUL *sIN0I3E
yo uotgyaod possaratid ayy vey} aaeuy pre TOsL Use "adee ZO uoTzyTsod
UOOU COTMUaerhH sG} wore Yorpep em area sTuL "18T ST FBNL FO B/T
nbe sy} 9 ‘kB e IOJ wOpyou ss Sr L
(SOT OF Tanto ot OFRE eas we tA oO FFeaT
($2 94} WoLE serZop ous Buypmorz09) «Qh TA FE

:Aes am IO iBT TA SE OF 18S TA TE WOLZ Saaom sfVaTEN '

"gGcogo0rou Saatyeu ayy Joy LCTP Sod pessarzorc

LORKa OTZ Vey ST TU fal TI GL $90% pues ayIswvoyas 3%} WT UMOTIS BR

Tost se ‘4dag FO wOTZTSOE MeoU |Yy WOIT YOMpap va entea SPUL “ZT
BT StU} £9 S/T fsexnuyz e_ 20 1Sigl 4p yey Seacm rentag

4

“ag STuMbe Boy etyy *geee'e se ue Bot
BL eS
ge

eess*T ‘urw oF Bot
raeqyTIEH#OL UFtN SuTINBTI ewes ayy op si: 2e7
*,O ofdzoog g 8B BATPOU O43 TOF YsITOS passoexS0ad jo
Quawow oy3 TOS uotgzsoOd ayy SseAwaT a2 seat 14 CTT OSS S$ ‘as ST a/t
*sagnoyw Bo & wor *o'y ep ted uctzop iexreny
anuru oF (8/6 0% 4/6 1) ronence aqy worry uae} qenft
Ole YOTWa tagpdnp vue wcngzeg “SNEIG UTM anty CF a=ee ayy
18 Tenuvyp T :passarzoid aungced

"9Puy @26F spew ea uwEo quewsganf(pe OU ple aynUyU eTButs suo ysnf BF uoTIow

BUT agnvoon strameayds en}. UT UMONS SB UaNxR ASNf 87 aungdax
‘gGousoLoy pesseaScad S,eATIEU oh} LOZ eoST PE zeny us
UoTaTsod s,uooy amy ST STL “Ta0UeD ,LTOOe ST iSToz® Ssat see UD ez

“ sSTp% TO _gezo"T “(PPR sAvate)
CObL = segue Boy

; 267e = Teel 307 ‘1 Te soor#op oT
st (3/6 o &) DOTzZ8and uy SInoeY -S 2n} UP UOTO :ucONn
(8/5 9% 4/6) ‘yas OBsTA yl ST ugeET Zeek YR UT sep

URITO SY4 FO UrMpor ay FO LOTRTHOM A,UNE aq, :8T TeasuR 9UL
*Aep geuz ZO uoTzysod uoow ayy 0% aNTSA StU, PPE PTNOA
om ‘UOOU GT Teyze Usaq oA PTNOM 4T GT ‘4anpep sma taou azozeq 3Tt
JUPAS @UR VEneoag “SagnutM OT eae Buy UP sMOGI SEMNUTIM TINY PIeTBoU

“34ST 2 (#heaTe2 ppe)
OOkL ‘uym gg sanoy ¢ BOT
szec't saqnut 6g Bot

IGWYU9FLEBOT YZFH O®Te 44 OP OK
"OBITA (L45,¢T Bey, On BEATS yOTYA ‘YYES “adeg Jo usta Tteod uooU 9Us
mors anfea sTyy yONpSP PUY ,OT “a°] ‘BOTZO" stuz Zo o/T BuTHes
40 Sttepuom yF Op Ava ay *189 ST G/5 04 4/6 WaTT UNG FO VOTIOR

ISMOTTOS BR posoortc om ByouRTd TeUPTATPUT aqy Sutin he
&T

--- PAGE 13 of 260 ---

[OCR] “ao ty
mer Td
Bet td
moo td
age Fd
MST Td
wos ta
WEZ td
aL td
mor Fd
WLe ba
Up Td
arr td
wer td
wg td
mey Fd
mee td
mg Fe
Bap Td
wee Td

“O°
te

ba®)

mgs
BOS
usr
wor
wae
wae
woe
woe
ust
uot

mQ

mgs
wos
wugy
ROp
ase
moc
woe

abe
Uee
ace
wes
une
Ree

ue
uce
ace
wee
ace
wee
aed
wee
yes
Wze
ueE
uee
Ree

i“ Pre

OF
uby
woe

“RTS

BST
zgS
mae
FES
us

TSP
mee
Dal
ug

ina
wee
wT
ag

REP
use
agg

ugs
wee
m9
uet

US
aor
uge

ale

@it

use
a9c
uegT

mo

uts
Uzb
mee

BLO

TEBS
YSLe
PEST

"ocr

aa mean

woe USES
wl wee
MOL Use
wg wee

ugg ul2
wos Ue
uce UTZ
UCe UTES
use Utz
moe Ute
mse Ute
moe Ue
ust Ye
BGT ute
me Ute
ug ule
wes OS
mos Oe
Usp Oe
woe WOZ
moe Woe
moe Wor
mse uOc
mor UoE
BST Yoo
wot uoz
= woe
uO Ue
wag 4éT
wos Us
US? UBT
UOPUST
moe uéTt
woe W6T
mse UST
woz WT
BST UST
wot Wé6T
mg USL
mg UST
uss Yet
wog UST
usp ust
Zor ust
@ge ust
moe vet
mse vet
Roe Ut
WoT WET
WOT Ust
wg UST
moO UST
mgs 4st
mos ULT
wep GAT

"I°Pts

weg
wT
wy
uss
wsy
Oy
wor
wie
aTT
ag
wes
wey
mee
wee
wet
ZT
wos
wee
mae
TAT
ws
WES
Rep
ez

ats
wee
wgz
uTtT
BLS
apy
wes
met
WES
ury
we
wtT
ugs
wee
Ute

Wy
Boe
aTt
urs

mgT
ms
mis
met
mes
wee
met
meas
mAs

"OC

@oy T at
ase Yo LL
moe 4 ZT
mge U Zt
moe © LT
"STU LT
mot w LT
ego Yu et
uw 4 at
ees Y SL
mOS Y OT
use U eT
MOY Us

use U oT
mOg UST
age U oT
wOE Y ST
ust ST
BOT Y ST
mu ST
BG oy Bt
™SS 4 ST
agg § ST
mp Y ST
mor 4 ST
mse 4 ST
wos UST
wz u St
woz U St
UST 4 St
WOT G ST
mg oy ST
wo 4 ST
mes 8 FT
TOS 4 FT
mSp ao yt
BOP U BT
mse ¥ FT
moe a FT
mgz u pT
woz Y FT
BST U PT
MOT T PT
mg UPL
™ 0 FT
agg 4 ET
mos 4 ET

way 4 et
TOP Y ET
mg¢ U eT
moc Ret
wgz uct
moz U CT
wast 4 eT
mOT UY eT
wg Yet

BEERS LIEP TILED

ee

il

k4

OLTTT
eestt

use tT

«©
a

ow
dae

WHTTT ST

BESttT
ETSTT
ROTIT
wsrtT
mMeety
uc Fi
mee TT
wee FT
TI
WeCTA
WLTTA
wocta
Boers
WET TA
BOS TA
RESTA
FL TA

Le)

oO
a

on noosa
ew THOODH

]

ow
Cj

oon
FAVE

TOPTA LT
weeta &
Gp TA ST
WEeptaA CT
weetA &v
we fA tT

Weeta
D2eTA
mz TA
WEPtA
ce TA
up TA
Uppts
ase tA

a
SP
mTo
ugt
agg
usc
mS
m6y
mee
w2t
ue
my
mee
mET
mE
cep
use

CHawoOrN ag

aTse
2122
sISZ
e1S¢
STs?
OTs
atte
2702
oTeT
e1eT
2T9T
e1ST
OTST
a7q2T
eTtt
eTOT
ote

etd

“OR

vO @er

mee U et Vee eS

ROS 4 2T ae #TS

usp FT et wos eT

Gor Tet Gop ate

wc; & et woe FIT

moe UN ST met To

wee YU et ug “06a
moe U eT DES VOLE
wet u at wep Boor
mot U et rer wose
wo ot eT OD Telope
ru User mOoT voce
wuss YU IT wpe UdTe
mOS 4 TT wep VOOe
USe T TT ase UST
mor 8 IT weeZ UBT
age UIT ust UOLT
wor 4 TT we Uost
wse 4 IT eS UDtT
moe 4 TT wey UDST
ust & TT mse vost
OT U TT woe UOTT
ms Ul wog up9T
wo utt WET. Ups

uss U OT ag UYoe

wos u OT Ges uoo

ast UOT UFP UOS

uoy 4 OF ug: Uy

use 4 OT Toe ue

moe GOT wey 4S

mgz U Ot us uot

soe 4 OL tg . 4OO

wSt 4 OT mes ange
WOT U OT RZb FDLZ
mS UOT pe enss
“OO YU OT mse 8Dc2
mgs u 6 WEST 8OPe
woct 6 u, eee
usp U6 =eg eNTe
my Us WEE 8DOe
uge U6 Mse @O6T
mog U6 TOL eDST
mgs U6 TLE eOLT
WOZ Us GIL enor
mst ue ag eDsTt
WoT 4 6 ugs anet
mg U6 CY FPET
UO U6 - WEE ONIT
ase u 8 UWZe FOOT
wos 8 WET eps

asp u 6 RT &D8

wor us wos spo

“LPTs ‘OON

"eaqgnutm Ss

3
wD
Add deat ean tdi ddA

wp
Wor
use
mos
use
lel

“Lets

PSE AE INI IN HY HOON OOOO OOOO OCONR EER EE OTE ER OWOOOOMM

8

Qo

n
AdSAdasAdeadoad

meg an s
wee 8D +
mt 3) ¢
mg abe
mes 35 0
wer BL 62
moc Bl 82
aT @L 42

WIS BL $e
mae BL <z
moe BL Ze
EIT €1 Tz
fas @L 6T
ugy ej BT
wge BL LT
agl BL ST
res BL FT
ueop BL St
wze BL eT
wTt @1 TT
agg BL

use el

ule BL

mes BL

Wyo TY 6e
wSst rw se
weg AY 9g
use ty oo
mel t¥ be
mgs iy ce
wee Iv Te
GBT tv of
ugg Iv 8ST
we ty AT
BLT I¥ OT
mos <y #T
wu, I¥ ST
wet ty Et
wee xr¥ ot
Tie 2¥ 6
GOTI¥y 8
ugyriy 9
ULely Ss
ug <y +
wer I =
mgety T
wo I¥ 0

“Dcn

04 sagnutm Gg WOT JaIAWT ang fauUTL
TBerapts Suppuodserxcoo |uy puB YZIOH opnztzey
Awe LO] UWaaRay-PTH 3y} TOF stqul yusuemrag

VET UF
wolT ut +r
wu UF
TOO UF
mcs ue
wos us
mp us
moy ule
mse ug
moe Te
mse uc
Woe Ue
wstT use
totus
wm ut
mu Ue
ugg u 2
Bog Uc
aoy Ue
mor US
mse u 2
wos Uz
woe a 2
moz ue
mst u 2
mOT Ug
ms a2
moO Ue
mes UT
wos YT
mgzy a T
mor ut
use UT
moc ut
moo ut
woz UT
msl aT
wOT YT
mum ut
woo 4 T
mgs uo
mos uO
uge 40
ror 4 0
mse uo
moe uO
mse ud
uog UO
mst 4 0
rot uo
meuo
kzouo

“L°P¥Ss

--- PAGE 14 of 260 ---

[OCR] +gouo paindysy ATuo ptte yUsEWIAG arpa; fa3ueqo ranau sotraiue

. sod pasaarsord ayy ydaoxe Ful Uyte SpBW eq PTNoys
Tye aasa thy tkeoep qowe Zoy Betazue adeno ayy opem rAITT BUTARE
2 ‘33u0 a eroym e@por#ep pur uste of Surproocow ‘sowtd redord
zeqze ‘sSuoteq 34 am a utdey \euoep oma Koy agced
auy OFUT Perajue st “pegzooT ST 4} SE FovETA youg

a r= esto
SsIQi OFUT PeDTATP ST panon, 3 Bee ee poarun 'pacorrte xTp

. ‘ Orrym one
eed 303 qazn03 ayy {qy paqrem ‘ouepune egg 26; pesn ey Burz przys
ou, U3Te Putt quepuacey ay} uN paxrwm pue ‘adoosoroy xYtper syy
xoy pasn Bt Butz pur ay “Teed faeas peBueyo ey vorym adoosorou
paesserzoid Eres zoz pasn sf Bupt szazno ony ‘eBut1 aay set yet adoos
-oroy Bfq auc o4ut moqy JO TTP aqyeqriodioout Sn, “pessarZoud ayy “Udgts
aaa PUB PeTOLI,W suEpuNU ayz Sue Gatos  |ys PoTOLTTU—-¥T Psy euy ato
PITA} 94 Souspenm ayy auo pucdss aug “XTPEL 944 SBx uO FRITE Buy
*“gadODsO1OY SATS Sti, LTE saHm OF MOQ JO SoTMI Oty GazeTauoo 23 3OezF Uy
Sadoogsoroy possorzZOrd any axe OF mOY ZO SeTHI 9uy Sagetdwes satus
. *adooseroy passeadoad ey} OUT Patazua aq OF SOQ BFUL
‘Usa BL Of7T Oo emer 103 "OH°H 349 PUR OT UY SATTENIO8 SmOUS STIeL INO
*,BO.OTRS STenbs ‘usw yz SearBep g sntd ‘oes G0 @ Gp Ug ienuy
‘sapnuTm py Saarsap F ST UOTys Sognuyw bet 20
“oT aUT2 “pTe TeuPZtgo 343 OF PPE OF eaey ea sony “2c5
«nT genio ue alael 043 FO omty "PTs Yareau ety axe} ATalau an pue
Baqnuiw % YoBe IOS jou Cue sayrtiu;H ¢ yore OJ spel ST aTae] zo aero
~oq ‘requcy SeouuTsvA. UT FF 2THITE © ‘oAoQe atduexe egy UT UAOTSs
sB‘es8Moo Jo ‘amt, yYoBs apet eq Yeti TOF SuTAcO, ele em BUCO |yR
“-p-y eu} soz puamgsn{pe Arossaoeu OL “yEQ,9T U4 A9TC#oy “Pappe aq
O% BAINUTM OB IO SaINUTM F SaWT} OF SUTO yBO Sy YS Sem ary, “PTS
-zS0zd sui 'Tz6T pag’ Suy ‘et ‘pro eteod OF SVm SAT4O any cons
",60,TS Ts rO ,p snid yBO.9% US SBa ‘plo reef auo Baa earaea aud
vega “gost pag ‘Shy 10J oF, "PFS euL "TOET Pac “Bny pattenbs stay
'yQ0 <OF UG See oTTI "DTS Taret ‘eTdwexs ino uy *aropareyyL outa
"PTB UZ IBYZMI sagnopu F o3 Tenba aT oFTT G,oazgQuu oyy JO T¥vek YoRs
UO ataq MOIg ‘aATJRU aN} JO arHes O BcToqg se (peyen[peun) uPo aH ae
TITTQ 38 “OH 943 04 Tenbe @ gp YG TIeo oy ‘ATTSevS Axed punoy IF
erat 1OJ BuyyooT ALTeEnZoR ale am GOpua “O'R pesseiZoi1d ayy
“aloo Tpew ewooeg B4[hweL aste ‘eTqesyTApe JOU SF (yO, FFrSWS
-qde sq Ut PoxrwD se 10} "O'H ayy JO BupAdoo auster4e B etopareul
-esnoy yap pus pag “UI6G 2N3 C3Te Sagaed sertyg UT WOT, POPTATP
BQ Of BBY SBNoOY YZOT FY} UsaAS puR Pern4aTZ aa jyenm suoty790d ITayzO
2U2 ITY ROTH Wosg “OR Pezenfpe xTPEr suz 97 STUL “yBhi97 AS
Sutaq omyq Teorepts WiITQ ai Of anp zeqjsNy Saynuim st “3't
108 90 9g 94 BY “\Sy UG JO ext, "PES @ STenbs yous “mye op 92 30
QIITG JO AUowow 944 ye AButeq Jo peaysuy "om ay “artoyereqy
*Baynuyu gt = x
fooe ! gseoe = x
‘oog 40 papratp @g Seauty a3 = x

¢ e932 69 + 00F

eceTd ou, pue (xrepueTeo ayy UT URCYSs) UOTyTSOd s “OOH possesrBord
aN Usamj{ad SaTRue ay} arnswac OF sARN am ‘SUOP SJ BUR Us
“(a to not‘mu’ a’) Semoo 37 qoTYm zo yno adoosorzay
2U4 88 Tle se st qatatd aux yoTyM UT UBTs 04g ppe pue BoyNuTW pue
BveiBep uy ‘BanTRA ‘ames |Y4 Yea au ataum S50RTd 3U4 2B aTOe] Jeuj0
Buy Werz guoypysod Arvyouetd rno 4racuyp eu ‘pagetdmwoo st syuR szaqry
*(suoyssar3o0rc 40) Ivek ayy OJ woeM ay. GO WOYIOU aATAUA ayy *A‘T
sjaed gog/es¢ perajue eAvY om Beet pre zenSny Aq yeuy oB ‘ucTyom
8 uoom pasbar3ord ayy zo yred ceg/t fep nova repusTeo styy aT ppe
ey "PTO Siwak og SY anzyZU yeu} UsyM AvP aU LO “SET TOI U-ooR
ay} JO uOTZTsoOd passerBoid payetnotes imo xojuo om otduexe IOF gest
Pag ‘"Sny ug ‘aves BuymotToy et4 pag yendny spue pus pr¢ ysnSny tte
BUTFeQ TOST Pld "ny UrOQ saTauuU 94} TOF olgey ouy sTdwexa xno ur
*yoexa Aep qeu3 10J pesseuSord woo ino ainStyl am agneoaq ‘ACP WRIT
eu FO UANGST og Uta UTSeq sheate sezrque euy *peer} aa adoosoroy
aud LOZ uooM oassar%oad eq; JO UOTATSsod 8 ,Aep—oO4-—ABp aud yreBUT “o7
SPTs 3yz UO SuMMTOO YZTH “up rozse sep ceak epuateo TIny e& XLEH
em Ulsrecm ‘AIBSSGODSU ST 2Tael pucoes ¥ ‘aTaByl yons umo 817 ser
‘epanoo foSadoopozog vou ‘auezRzecd jszauetd anotiea aug go efor, v
3hQ Buyysou ST 4T sense *903 Bdoosoroy ayy TT20 usse fem aw Gopya
‘adoosorcy aug yo suct3ye0d paxzy eyy so ator, @ BaATasINoO axeu
fara ay 'apTauraycered raqqo 10 n8TapUtyT yoouse, Pal[vo-os Jo 40T
DB Of asrAccea ButyAezR ynougtH ATROTMO wsuop vq ued sTv4 ao7y patzznd
ere e{desd Io 7OT ¥ “MTY UTA Spasds utwazao aaon geug eqgeuetd But
—epatBord ay yo euc spremo3 ATOtEsed so ‘sadoosoroy Teq4o = Buz IO
BSUOTITSOd YuRIsuOO ro ApReqB *‘paxtz ano gO guotwe sprewso. seTaue
UTEIteo S2Se9 YF JOU TO Tayzsya Payoywa oq MOU QENW OOM ETHL
“S2TNSsr OU asta ‘400TrOD LOOR 933 JO uoTQOM ATTEP oTZToeds stud
axreBtz 04 souezrodwy yeomgn aya gO St 3] *9aS [Tes woos am SP YT
U3ta TROTOaD wv arBY siemre ya0m ay *Aep qowa Bea;nuTm g ewos jo ucOY
PessacBord |, Fo Quaweaow aBBIaAg ue SMOUB STU "(PRET “OreT ‘Seet
fgoel ae yors) svat deat 8 st aue4 passeaBozd yteaino 313 st 99g
Ao 20 ggg 49 UoTZOn B, reas STY4 @PTATP 0% aAey AToZOW 9a AOR
pasher#ord etyy yo uotgom ATyBP ouy pats of “reas ato etembs styl
‘Uyo suos pus SeaiZap SI Ppue IT teanaos ST (Gotsesrdosd 4q zeakt 300
Tol 10) fep rad toog auz 50 uotyom aerate 2q} 38N}2 Uses aaBy oH
*ROTZOM 54} UP UWOGCH ayy UOtew ATUO am aaoosoroy pessarZoad stqq
mers ujTede pues peropTsuoe suo 4TUO ouR ST Stuy *adouseroy passer
~SOLG 83 8} ‘BITI S,aatIet auy Fo aut. ut teak suo atenbs uofzom
8, 43p BNO tO SFUL ONS. 9B DiBarcy AT TBaper# saaow yey. auo ATUO 874
SCN AWN“) ZeAa Joy Arwuot sie are sadoosoroy rox ey “apen
ST Sdoosorey O44 HOY TOF oAFQeU eUZ BSpIOM Zanyo UT ‘zo Wares aus
BE-fupcd gages eny 4eNR euTSewt sieaTe au sdoosoroy zno ur
‘mers wodn yowal Tit TaenpTATpurt awa
Aum 849 SQ MONS UITTQ TEMOTATPLT we 10 pazzooT uoys ezeuetd qus
“IeFITP 949 04 uoOm ang 4g 4BtS (8eT3ue eUd) B2osdse on4 arTOlarenL
“UOTASSS SATE-BupuaayStT ew ut yjrea xmmo 03 emoo 4vq4 afex snoprta
Sut TT@ Fo TaAteocer eyg eq ©4 Susan OU UCON 342 BT II *NOOM aur
ay pue SaT3uB UT paqsarszuy ATO ork 24 ‘sa0adee Teninw ou gusts
ou “gaenoy cu fzapFsuoo Of BQiO OU aABT ax *aroze0 poyaqe sy
‘weuy gardrajuy of Pwsooud
Tleqe ea ueq, pue sMuy ay KOS BATS TrRUS I aartE *emee ayy Jo
UOTFRVordLaaUT ey 8} |rego Buy Buyjoete raqsze ‘dors axau Ing

(Toy BuyHXOOT are aw antes 9yz 8t xX )

$8HOTTOZ BB BT MOU BEM CL eABY om UOT}PHNDS auL
WO ol yo UOFPOW OMEQ “PTS 34d Buyzop *o*A ut uotzou
9U4 PUyE 09 £24 Sp°repuooes COE Tenbe waynuru g ayy ‘Baqnupu gg IO
1Bol SUH (105 YS OF 4GF YS Wor) Sagnefe g Jo ToFZOM srt? THO
—taepha a44 Buyainp ‘o'n aty JO uoljom ouL",6g TO reyganz Bpuooss 60
aznupw T ATTengow et omy} TeeTopts Ing ‘yo 9D OE Buoys FT OF
BupBucteq ‘om aut pue .sp Ug BKOUS aTqeL Ino uy amyy L[esLepPTe

$9eTeeU en] *,80 1S US FUa OUTS TBstspyte o4y}y oBeD INO UT

uces—a’
adosedton DrOs-ontE

OT? FO UoppDzerdzazuy suy
4

eee ee eee PEPPER E ESE FF |

--- PAGE 15 of 260 ---

[OCR] “sognuym Ge = OStOEPrT

XO BpuUooss OPT 1O Spuonss ByT SomTE OT U}6S “990 TT? Pre *Sny
mOrl UOTIOM faTOlaray} {Bpuoows OT BBA ALHOLER FO UOTZOM AL TEP auy
‘pesdure covey SABP BPT
Iaqnaceq ut BXkep Bz
ieameaoy ut efep oO¢
“490 UT SsBD TE
‘adeg uy sfUPp of
qenuny Ul sARP GZ iuxee teqmeoeq pue pig yonFny
Ussajzeq pesdete saey skap suum xoy ainBzz 02 aaeg aa a8zo 3484} UT
"aAOge pazegs peaeds agi 4TH BTaaer} ArNoOLAy VeNY Laqqrnz SAutounase
puz ZEBT WI6e TeoWBDaq UO AqnHoTeR psSueiBord ayy puy uooR passer?
oad ag ussagoq y00dee sg TuTJEP BV aA om 4UqY sas sn yaT ‘MON
*apuooas oT ynoge sTenba (uoTgow ,;Bhep suc 4a8 04) soy sone¢

Pyooss =. 108 = ot P(UOTPETNOTVO Teyqoun.. amp Ipndaz
*xaqeex eAow 20Btm 4T zeeA Bupmo tT pToz 2u3) uot3senb uz reef ayQ LAz
Cp uoes uofgom eat 302 om UOTSTATE AQ Ua ‘(akep s9%) qvak ato
Uy saz3op T BaAow AxNoIeW PpasserZoid vyy atdwere mno up Bupsoddng
“spucoes tides ut aq Lem 4F YSnon, usse poods ATTup uzegroo @ ye 4ng
domf sugut uotsserZor1d aug ayem- jou op Asay] *TayzIN] yonw.ore sayy
IOAO BT xeak ayy veges 4842 Os Tesh guq4 Butinp Butsaoz uo dooy f£eyy
‘ang "rRah ¥ BOUO ATUO ZLleToO passartZord afi Ut Partsiue mag, sABQ oy
“siren ‘enuag ‘Arnozeq ‘ung ey} ae yone e4oun Td pesser30id Buyaow
QS@J aud HATM QUexeIZIP ST 37 ahaQ ‘eqoueTd peBpserBoid Boptaocw. 40tea
ez 04 sqoaise ugtm aBueqo SsT$4FTT 97 ereuy *fusememsed yon are foq4

agneceq sszoedse pasearBor1G ayy FO 4ysaays agudedes Bw daax o7 aavyq aK

*xeaéi a9 SuTinp wooR any za
@yoadse syeusTd pessecBord aanseew 03 ynoOow oF Of MOH

*BIOTY GEST Fetoear passarkerd uooz ayy Ueya Pawszo0y st 4Bq2
qoadse ayy yo upySueT auy SP. SaarSap Sy UTeEIQo em pue Fyo sevrSep
GL °WP2 Sy} op ea TIe O& furooTIuep eg*p YR ST Tagtdne Jo aoeTd
Taujoe vu} saneosg Auuw 0043 SeerBep GT use pBY vm ‘Teramoy (P
*PIO7 Lie ssarzep 06
JO SaalBep og ceypouR ale LBIOCoTadeD gg-SEl 02 “Bes ez "st worz (2
Sp1o9 TIR oO 70
SesitZep og Leypoue ary BAzLELyTSeS eCs"Sel OF CFd1oCOg gest MOTT (a
{eaerzep gg ere sraqy OTdxO0g Sg°st OF ETAT og*Et mors {3
iAus oa DUE
qoadse ,anid, @ yyte op Of arey am ‘xoAqwOq SUIQTY] Se'GT 4B ST 47
JI “xXEpes reqgydnp o7 erends w en SATE v[oM sTUL “BLOTT Se “ys 3E
GT @ATPeU mo Tox uoOoR pesserSord ang Buywnssy ssnqq umoys oo Agm
BTYL ‘Sutppy woya sasqzep CL 34} ATLEnzOU ZONpEp of aAey dm aszo
pUO 3443 Ul *UBys oy4 JO oPTEagno CE of PoMOTTB you sre om osNeo0g
“SeerZap og pure GT wWeenjeq ‘a*} ‘seerBap ct Teac BY uoTgreod uana
844 $9N9 Juoas oqy UT woTgzsod usas 344 woToQ vo Aum antd ony

WU urcofadeg getp xogtdng
Ww (Beg e°eT snuein

B CFx00g -BETET SPON
werlqty C°eT aren

BuoT}TeCd xTper
; tpuytz PUY TOBT Pre “Bny Jo
BATIBU |YA Jo adoosorey ay4 398) 9a BeTGugxa may w UO aTyy wOKa OL
“$F Tox Azjzue we oyum 04 SAey OUTEe om BOT ?TSOd Pexts 837 worry AuaB

SZ

patd+y uroozideyg ge*st

+antd y °3Re 2°o2

entd + g O}fdioog gee

Bente (XPV sueow yu) PLATT O° Le

47 04 BaarZap ST pepper

Hy

HTH SI

wesa3ep ST ST 3eULT & coAatOge ‘grouse uy *wagsis BTq) JO adequeape any
eqBIqeuosap ATROTAD TIT 9otZo@IG SLAITT y “37 09 aT3ue sarap cp
B 48BO pTNOm 4T SIGTT TE‘OS $e Vaya puwe snus, XTPeI STZ oO} aTBue
aarZep ST B@ BED PTNOM IT {OSITA Te*Ozae 3a PINNw UooR 3u4 BuTwcsse
‘eng, “ATFuwgSUCO AT 03 Pappe OF BAey P[MNOm BaeiBep GT ‘ay ‘1oadse
waAewn Uy stonaq pTnesw 47 go0dee ussAa ue Buteo 50 preyaut yMq oya
opdro0g {foe “BAATT Teo” ‘OFATA F2°oZ Sassed uooN any Lana ut satos
gOsdse Ve Jeu s4uOTPRT PTNOw U9gy ety, ‘usTs ( +) etc & uta ying
OBltA Tk*OR TapUM paxiem ac O8T2 PyNOa SMuep |WRA SITY “O99 aTIxee vo
toy, pus eTZue soi¥ap op ev usw, ‘fuotyounfuos e q32T3 3889 ptnom o4¢9
Ofdroop Te" “eroTT Te°’S “OFItA Te°S reso Butased ucoy ong pty ‘uasa
Sq PIMOs ONTBA STYL *OBITA Tes 4B St aldyexa ano yo sme, xtpar
oud aTdwexa IOg ‘Tayo atiq Ul Lasatn Sowsooq apts ate uo ward st
zBug ‘Seartlaep O¢ ~ sT pue GT -.9 iseeaZap Of aSou2 UTUITA Beta Oid
BABY am ‘(9925 Tors uy 4T utoft oa aenNeI0G) LeyzeSoyte uotytaod uss
ey} Suprou8t yng searZap og 02 BearFap O BZOIT SagnutTw pur saarsap
fq woreyor repndsaz uz peoetd or sqaurrd On} UToersta suotytsaod yo
eTaty @ eaey gm ‘Lazze0 Stuy UIE TdGxs oO] ‘ceTRBarry are yeti Ssatras
ax. (0g FO aaTaTy thw vt 4zeue ere yer; 9ous) Such, Tso0d ze [Tnzaa euy
Veeayed pagresuy LT (slau wordisog pegen{pe 3$eT) stotatsod ro atqey
euq uz *ASsea 8Furn Sayem getty wepy ua ‘uoyqgueauy ue dre etz3TT uons
TTB sem suo Fy‘ ypaquasuty savy Tt SOT ‘cet ‘cot ‘sz ‘Gop ae tons ‘feu
Seerisap ci eryxa ue are ReQ}L sscut "att Ss4oedse usaaun euq Ugla retsve
Srey7em ayZev oO] “a2 cy aaec NGA se 1e> SB dle OZT ‘oa "O95 foe sAeuTa
FUNOH “Ra1edooT ST Pexoodse St yuNy KOT TIO @,j3euetd ayy wats og pug
noyssaerSord 4q punoy sy uooR eu} UTareuA UsTs ay} mOry reAo gunoo aenf
pur oBTpeg ay4 FO suBTe oy} Payrasuy eAuY 3M srEyK ‘greuo Btq sno gto
OPTSUF sy esn aa (Buoy paxtl atp BuTpnrouy ) By youetd parser oud zo
TOTATSOd |y4 PUY UOOM syR Useumtec seTBue ay, BZuptiuseaw oy By
-. .. (WONG 4882 ABT NO “37 10 ains 64 09 ATyuaToTjins s4qyzedo Teier
TUFe ST Pages 20u SABT ng SeTZTpowmco Yaya atizy ed O04 Stuy pUuNos z
yetodo B ZO pus oud “St Tesreaass azatdioo e qnoqe Buyin ft Tene aud
fauoyatsod paxtz puv uooy Woamzeq yUeLrocmy Aran are seiaue sartab og
FBUF punos BABY T ABS ABW I (L9IET Tr4uN mou agonb y votye seTSue
euy Toy AxQ Jou ptnous SreuntSeq) B8YUaPNZs PaouUBAPE Bol B OL
“SaTSue {noqe MmOUyY Of Sav oH TTU OF esas
*yesomdn, ey} O43 dozs @ and {ttm iueevaTdun BuTtiawog
3903 UTeIzaS AyjeId are ax SuoTyTEOd amos pus udSey pessertAcrd 342
USSMZ9Q UP Gowoo eTZue ser3ep gst # Io uoT TsOddo ue pues auty suod
BABE Flotqem Sutunsse ‘puen roy4,o ayy Ug "8}50Q Vy Of Tegzem at
aBueqo 09 SufpoS sz uotjzounfuce any 3204 Sutmtieee ales so Aum oa Usty
pus _ “WOTITSOd Tayqo swos pue UlOR sty ussujoq eT2ua serBep og & IO
aerZep cy wa peg om uotzyounfuc.D @ Butpeosrd 280% OUNBSR BM 4e7
‘OST ‘OST ‘oO tezozeq uaeq seq yeuM
nor? zo few eytsoddo ayy ganf qoe ATyatsn Aauy ano ‘ABM Taugts yor sem
setgee BurMOT TOT aul "SOT “StT ‘sot ‘oe ‘ep reTquzcaezun ert
ateue UTMOTTOS auy ‘gaer3ep ‘ost ‘sz fos ‘oe “gt retqnr0Ans are
_2eT ve FUT MOT TOS aul “eatpeu sqz todn s_go00rse ay;UTzep eawq seTSue euy
Soortop so raqunu syy 4Q TBO 3S8nf on AsaBans §13au,0 [Te ‘asn puv azts
vo, Oem 04 IsaBHns pTnow T g ssony “woTyouNfuco @ petTeo BT serZep O
Uorarsodde uz post ‘eutr2 @ oOgt ‘azends 2 og ‘PTT{XeB B@ PATTY ST
Boeisep o9 Be Yons ‘ssmeu use ussq oaeT a9tSue Bseq} FO suos
“Saynuzw ou pue SaelBep TInl sAweTe arr ASL

GD tat0se aarRap oO
tate f5u} e167 ‘sraqz0 ou pup seTSue uteqa arpnber ATuO eH
“Pe,VeTTR St ed BT uoTITsed eB ,yauetd oy3 FoTuM Ie

ve

--- PAGE 16 of 260 ---

[OCR] Ou} Sraguemer ATTUNEN eatzer ayy fydstq Fo esoeTd ayy woux osTe om
‘Iesanoy ‘4Aqsyu ro wooU “2uTuIOW Tayyaqa ‘qusMow IO awT, 249 you
pues upITG Fo ABP ayq mouz sTUO am ‘awngse Bn  2eaL ‘arozalayy

“g¥au aug 0; ABD auchur wory uctiom any

UTE PQS PUY (FpLaweyde ayq UT UMOTS LOTZ0M 3, AeD aur) soo sq uottom

Sty OPTATP eM AeA YOeE "YFATQ FC Yuowow ey3 woIs zeak auo punbse o4

ABP YAVs WooR 99 BurssarBord “sqtramayds ayq woxry uperqo sa aTuy

"U3Pep Of Ga URITG worry uoT}Om pasBsecBoud Al pep s,uoOy sy. wou oe
*BaSveyo yoy sAuptrq yy, FTIGTNS ayy Sy woo 04g ey, BOUy ay

‘daqe £9 doqyse w#OlTos no. use

Agee ST $7 3nq ‘soezims |c3 Go pogweoT Tduos At2uqumess By poyzan EX

“eTGBTTazl you way? puncy fT “suosue SB ALZW Be peqjses BATT I AASTIIqQ J
"SQIVYO GHITG ATTZOSr OF oovMZsTxXe UT spoygan Lue ate ezayy

{IIa wosse7) umouqrn st yisTG
IO eLT} Ways YTVUD BLO LOTZROTI Tay

*Tesaet “OOS PINK
9803 v se SouTS 04 [TTH O4Thoar rnod SexzTe BaTPue saei3ep oo TLE
28912 NCA Yanog, vess ‘BT 47 Se ‘TeAaMOH “4] HOTS 03 ape Loo sBy
3dueqze up pue enue, Jo FEN 24 PUELEZIp ZeumMeMoOS |Q ASTM aTBuUB
OS SB WINIVB YUU YUapTAe BL BPlRmIaiye LOTqetsrea 4yFtTTS ayy, *uooR
ous 49 pogoedsy Suzaq ageuetd [Tu ror of ATxesu Io Tenba sl eTBuy
BaTISP OO BF REYI MOTX Of QURZIIOADT @T 2T arAstTec ft Szsuuy3eq ay4 r0y
$qou ey at ‘seseuog ‘reqdeyo BT 74 UT Zeprive ptes T 3eysM Of UOTZOTp
—BIQU0D UT ATautmeas st yderSermi aset ayy fo SttuutBea oud
*(JaxrED
TRAQ) ASTI BS aaTyeu 4 UT @aUTTOeP en4 64aoqs yooder pooS's rTt4zun
Preaumop ATIUBQSUOCD parzoTd are szoadse peo jo Satieas & pue (exreW
gies) ATIURZSUOD PIBRGN SAAC YeYL BUTT zeRooroy ve qaaof Surrq
Sjoedse pood jo sayses y “(e%T4 UT) gemoo auo peq B LT2uN YSBT
Sjo0edse poo ayy ‘wa0m,Dq-U BT Suyqgoy ‘aeaTzrae yoadeu zeqzoue
Li2UN B4eeT PUY snp 8} Y} ABP ayy uo surBaq io0edse- Auy *aqoadsr
aLgeloarson Sut77zo Td usu satrdde sues Buu’ (FTS83t UT xeueTd egeun
“prozuN ue Suzsq) seeiBap og 4juo jo atSue te se pariotd aq prtnons
UINIBE Of sUTIg @ pure fsoorZap oO, yo s{TSue we uz parzotd eq fem
TayTcng Of euTI9 B BTM ‘BeexBap OO ABB JO 4yzRPJO w UO 1T Butapotd
Maya praadn eT2ue uw saey plnoys g xo x ‘am ‘my ro y Arnorey 0}
BUTIz BU ‘ENYE, “petisouCD BF BUTLOUT fo eTBue ay. az tel ee yOazrA
Tysyy UT seBuorys eazy szouetTd Suyaom worse ey, ‘euo Suyaom ysez w OR
e805 puy paceTd Suyaow mots & OF 830908" UsanIaq UOTIOUTISTD awos
axe Tan oa PouTeou0l By Sioedev jo Buyz30Td. au, se aay sy
Teacgy Dazers suotzTs0d F arty
Fo suo up Suzeq se szem TOF HOOT p[Now J useqZ SeTqnor, ay} eq JO
TERS SY} SLU Benet Givys gO SSaUTTT Uappfs yteae ayy ur a40x
"37 ALTBER}POe BF
EGR BUC BY} PUYF Of pLey JOU SF 3T ‘SaTATITGTssod 4 02 unOp aouo
ST UZITqQ JO outy MOA sym ‘zeyzang *quBpUscBe [equ gsnofs of UOTE
-Fsoddo iu azenbs ‘uoyzourfuco ut Taqata quemom yen, ye st Urnie¢
AvqTansn ‘uocyzysod. e,30teTd yueqgsodzy: amos 9803 PUTS LItm ATARTL
FFou NOK ‘edoOosoroy XIPBA B YOaTa O01 NOs Paws T Ave 9Y4 BZoUBTa
2Us TlTe, ¢zosur *¢qZnous By grEuD aTzuys) 22BYO B ZUuswOW yoere ZEY?
IOx }0aLa Of BT JUaMOW UZITQ INOA sBBd BIN, UT puTZ 09 Aw oUL
"3r@sqy Aq yuepuscee yoexe Au mOUX Y 2BYR UazZO OF Steshuw peqR
peysa} aaey fT "O2ATQ INCA JO QUAWOR ay 48 YSeq ayy UT seeTI 4ZeT?
aoeTd a4 sossoro yuomow 34eu4 42 Uaavey ou} UF JauETd yayR ATTeRgoe
Subem STUL “ZTaNeT, Aq YUEPUaosy. aug Boesoro. wayz isn! eur Jouetd
RUB Zroauy we ATTanen st 47 PUY GEE Sesnup Feyy gt} [TBstepyts 3syq4 Jo

4g pened oe etree ewonnne Hy
comretond sed emer ok at

notsserBozd |y3 et stUL “Ma{ozZ"T 38 ‘xagvT seznuym 7 AToexe UpSeq
TLta $F ‘amooeer prnoys 4y JY sup PITUy SUL “UO RaeMOD TIsds xreq,0
“U8 Nd EST"Y IU TTT WoO aq AVM Supyzsrass Ap yxou Bul “Aep Utes
-rao 8 UO Rd F21°T gu dus suyZeq Tiede syoepuey we ro T{eds o8t428s
p@ ‘stdwexs rol qeuy ef0U TIitH APN, “ALINOTSLTIP 4nougtm ATyaerz00
pwepusosy xzfaug je2 uzo o4e sayoepeay dreye ‘oBqzren 03 j0efons are
Z24Q 980g} AT[etoadas ‘uoTyTPUOD YsTRay rrayqy Suyqogesa fq ‘Sutrq 7
YORQs PpOuZaW Ten oe eyR yNOUITA Lasa JUuBpusasy Tyeqqy ATT1ver 10
XFJ UBo ue_gzo AOA SuOSIIG 3444 YZTOS Buyzrqg OF ONFI I Bgzreyo Fo
EUOTIBOTI T0992 OF Tead Of mov aw SY “YXTBEY ITY ULAOUOD SheuTP 190m
Aoyy Puy FTSeMTY eaTpeu 2g} ureouoo ATTensn AsuL *ZUEpUSOBY uy
Of @39adae UT BUNOT ST pageis aq 3SNM 4BU4 UGyIeTTea £THO ayy

‘(azdwexs reqget.ag3 ut esto ey, aq 03 ATAATT 87 BB payosy
-7e flaatieBeu oq Aem ay ing ‘mTY UT paanpord aq o4 eaeq ALTITessAaD
—eu jou seaOp 4yoazsa ayy VOU) VTTUa B LOZ SaAeeT MBTUY-TeuRZOW BTy
Tayieya FO ATPayzodxaua ARA BTY Samoo Yeeo amos Tayyayu ao dyr4
gueseeTagsex2} ay Jayjeum aot3Z0u UOCCs [La ay peyosar sy sep aq4
Udy “ATL S,aATQRU a4 UT Juawaaom praadn ue yyxroy eBursrq uortgyacd
B pue tcom usemjzeq eTSue asizap og &€ MOUN 9K “(Patozatw euepunu of
xa xytper ay ‘reqydnp of 1G Sie 0} yoader aarSap og SsTuq e42"9 4T
Zay3yeyH pus snpaenby up 20 ‘Seg uy ‘eninesy, up 10° BzaTyT UT By LOOK
aq} aypeqe uso FY sates eTy9 UT) £09 OB kayy oreym ro wory smOD
faq} sieqa puyw rendu aelSue satZop og JO BVsTZe eUuL azoU yent oH
‘saTZue sat%ep o9 $400 suo UT Tle wan, “20144 aa pue goTSuu soorsap 09
eae LL® yng *o39 ‘passei80id ung of ‘x}per sia, Of BaetZaD O9
‘ouspunt! eBrem 04 SsaszBop og JO Sqgoodeu oAey Om YrOm INO UT MON
‘gaheg ;Be yod suo UT Tle tewg ‘reyeg ‘1eheg ‘may, fo ettd 3tq
avo ope ‘Butttods zsdord 270u9 Ut Tile meyy, o3e80r83ea 04 Butaay
‘qguamureao® ayy “reppteug [Teds Of Hefp,atipaA 42 emoe ‘reseg osweu
aq3 Ttece of sfee go or2 arayQ 3eY}R Tecdedsaou @ uy AwD-04 peor
ey usddeyq y ‘payoret rez eq CQ Teaude Aew 17 Uno, caaa ‘rea30q

6TQ4 UpPeTdxs of ayBMo guyg UOTZeI4ZSNLIT ue yAroy Butaza of
*sygnrz radaep
JO aFpoTMOUX PaytMFL FNo ugta statesed sy ee poof sv eSuvyo jo
Bapep eyy nod #aaATS ay yeu, aieys Aem JT 3nq ‘eTtelep assays epntTout
30u So0p wazske sm *poo8 Auc nod op g0u soop 4} 48y4 souermnoso
847 JO oT? ToUYS vy OF BE HuUOTIBINOTRS IT3u3s Uitm FLO 1ez oe
AT}80m are soy4 pusq Loeugo 949 Ug ‘eq PINCYSsUTURIGS B FO FOasTe
ou} Vela paireouco Tre are Asuy 3243 punos 7 ¥HCoq TeotBoTor3es Jo
§0T @ xeto Bupon "at 4f-FBGe esSues UOOS ew eteT ST OMT Z oyy uEeqH
“BATIZe 01 Pasoadns st Peq TO pooS Hutgiemes Aep opTitToede geqq
Uo TO STY UO UTZ MOUA OF PEUXEOUOO srOowW ote ea yng ‘Hn ByoeTzFe
Zoodeu we HOY 70 STTerep omy 3noq# poursouoD yonm'os yOu are om
eSTI Ul “4Z0edse eartSap ST 8 3B szetetd Tle 0; fam ames ayy you
Tits J00dse salaap ST B oTdierea Og *48R0 BT 4RTy YoOedee |q} uodn
Buadep TTe fog, "(aroma sy) uoTstsod zo 3eteTd zeqzo Aue -og 410
‘snuein ParolItu asuvputm' eg} 0% IO Armory XIpPer avy O04 aUTIE B
BMUIOF 19438T oG9 BOOM oy, FO UoFeBetZoad Aq edeosoroy F Tey Au

SOURIATITP TIAL Saxe LT 4Bys ow UMONS BRY sousTIsdxe AR

ayoadse ata 2utqstay

‘AATOM JLYQ MOY BAB TLHYS ou eTduexra

Teoyzoerd o44 ur -uotgungTSs eu so arad ayxa3 OF ATBuTPIOooe peouvape
UotITeed B,yoadeR agg PUR sdooscroy passarZord ayy wt Trauad ute
Psrogus. uoTtzTeod egy OF Pappe ac 4BnH arzen STH, "U6 "99G TTS
Beqnutm gz uotyTsod zeEt prc "Bny 94% wos pReate pasow eey ArnOIey

Se

HRB Ba

--- PAGE 17 of 260 ---

[OCR] “eeeo0rd ayy yeadez
Of WDONIayTe ogy SuTANp aOTA F TOT atduexa pronasa ev Sutac Lleuse ft
‘aquapnys 7BOM AOJ PUBAsTaEpUN OF ZINOTPFITP ysow ayy By By Garg *
‘uTRBe reac [Tv adooporoy 99 4Oeta oa ONTY YoTya 107 ‘ToOST pig’ any
WY OF'A 22 IO woou eTojaq BW OF US PeLTINSoO yusAa avq eLOlereuy
a "eegnuta og sinoy ¢ stenda geos Sor
eee
q200P2P ¢nq ‘ppe jou Cp em eBBEo BTU CI Teo6 To's Bor
Lére Te'st Bot
‘ZUBAe JO OLTZ VU OF PIBAKoEg
USOU WeeK190 smT4y eg? sTenDs T*g FO "BOT suTd Terst Sot tsnul “alos
IO S2°ST SBat pe‘GL i8F Premyoeq eucB aq of LOT JOR tuo yrnTog
ETQOUBH SE"ST 3B UOOM |YZ BT euTy
VBUH YY “BeNuTMPeUG ST Bt GLItG FO aoVTd 3e UOTITsOd UuooU aya PUE
Te“Et 8T 4eUp oug fo woTZow B,uoOH ayy uoTy rUOTISene iay deze
“{y83no 4zous, Aus gduai3e
g0u Op aaveTd) tBaoTTOS au ST alipsoord suy *edoogozoy yoars00 @
qoarla Of azInbar om ST LeULeyaRred ey, Jo 48azq agj [Te pee aRpUAosT
Zoexe BY} arnSzz Of ABId Aa, PLTyYO mou ST 47 “"QUeAS au, FO sENeO ay}
92 BIRR XTPeI 04 woo pessardorg FO ueTyTsodde uA ATM Op o1 anen ay
"(uopuoy jo Se) uoft,yeod xtper uy Srtty ees em uTCoTAdeg ifeZ_o9T 4B Pue
aBBo SIT xno vy yoadew ue pLNOF aa Peyy wou Butwrssy i4¢ dogs
; “s3ueppooe UqtM ATTET
~oodsa ‘4Tnsar oy, nok aaAT® TLTw 4904 BSITTE O44 ATTUnen 4eng PUTS T1re
Ho, ‘eounjzroduy yo qusag Leyjyoue exw, pues upyEte teac TTY upBeo Atduts
ay ‘4oadeu guepussse uv useq aaey 4qSyua yt esta feuoT4Teed cu aauy ou
yoTga zo ‘yusae ay} pasneo Zoads¥ Pazorita auepuny 20 jy00dsu auepunm
@ ataqe a8vo @ yonrgs ysnl om 3eYQ tedaeg Aum 497 "Suora sft ZuTQzamos
9ey} 20 sep deyzo aos uo utoO oq ABU BATPEU ag4 2vUR YUTYI 100 aSnm
em ‘sIngwu geuy Jo goocet Awe puty youueos aa Supe cdiing rD¢ deqs
‘a@S20K aU 03 saSueqo veppis paooe Futio 4yeyq aimpeu IetT@ts fo sqoedse
zo suoMounfuoo ‘euotgtsoddo ‘saxenbe 202 HOOT ay, ‘SeTT4yXae ZO SOUTIZR
AOZ ACT ZOU op vw snug fgr0s8 Aue Jo Yosdsye aioeloaejl B uead saeT you
PIMOS 91 “(ATOZ YooT am ato ayR) 4LBpUsO’y ayy ODTB ATatTssod ‘urnzes
ZO Sley Sem Taqite yt ‘yuaptooe Le Suteg *juera Yeud Pesneo sae
PTNCS 4Buq gouRTd guegzocduyt uv of goodaR Ue UAym Foam am UM OT"SE OF
UO BL ZT BOLZ Buawsaow ous Suyinp 4eu3 puty aa JOU IO ITayteus see pue
BedoosOTOY syy UT ROOT MOU JH UWI0OQ SUH ay Usym yho DUTS o4 Tepro uT
"UIOQd SBM BATIRU
ogy Usye Sptodep TIe 3r “tp OL’ SE 02 Up HE ZT iersoserayy ST yuappooe
aga FO awe, 909 38 aq OF 9BN UOOR 9u} UWlalsys YIMTIT aul ioedaig
"19T 4D CF apts taqzo0 aus Fo
UOTZTBOC 3u2ByUpTM SB PUR UD BEST iePTS |uo wo uoT4Tsed a yBTupTa se
902 an ";PEUNTET UoFPTSod woou ey wWOrZ joONpep PUB PPT em ented Stuy
196°9 IO G$o9 BT woT om ABD “\ISpET BI Stramayds any wory smouq ou
boFZom 8 ,4ep cul “OST 332 “340g aus tup tw roy PuE 434 "308g ZuStupta
qoy “8*T “Bapts gQoq JO suoTATSod AosTUPTM 33 MOUH OBTE oa ‘IR TTA JO
eouTd 944 48 Woo euz JO UOTZTIOd uooU oy Buywouy zayzy ip¢ des
"@ pe UD GT IO BaqnuTwM go BRAT TaoURH ,OS'S6T 3B aPa YT ABD 4RNQ FO vos
}B eXOjereyy "saynutw gp yen saynttu go |uq UT PellTaseay ucoK euy
Baqnutw Eg 10 sEgo't
Bolr tT 199 B0T
Sere = le “ET 30T

{IOTIO Sagnuqu ge woomy aN, FT sToye pre
isegnuIM oG UT saow 47 gaup yorm wou ‘Tg Baatssp g{ st ABp a3 Butanp
UOTAOW B37 PUR ,Egtp BL Ye Md OS*ST YB BT UOOM 944 TI ruopyBonds

“ewyzTcefolT uyte op am SFUL “sOULd WJAITQ By, FO WOON yowKs aq. IOP
wot TTsod goo ayy aywoaT Oo} ST Op 03 BN toy daqe 4x9 ogy roe daag

62

“quappoce ayy go ABp vy3 ‘*‘geel Ysse ABR 10g ucoy passerZozazuoccU
3B woTsTs0d s,uoom yz 5B 195 UD ET ETenbo \sg°or etTd «TUN 6 Fez0Z
~3i28UL "TOBT WIL “2dag uo uopLuoT 4e UOT ysod LOOU ayy OF DPB sm aNTeA
STUL “Beynurm Sg_ol To saynutm g‘Fog = s6g SewTs ge*g sanyy “ABP
WIITG SYR outs UooM’ Sqr JO uoTZOW TBUoTATPPY ayy upezqQo aw ‘OCET Pre
gsnSny leyre sfep csy uqta saanuyw ge‘g e@eyy ATAT3Z [Nw em vagy
‘ASGT Pte pen@ny 03 SfET Pre gen@ny yo petsod oyg sTenbs soux ou
se YOTQM TOST ULE "des Pue Us “JCeS UseMsag WOON sy JO uoTiou se
fep rupusteo ced veynuym gzefg = See: IIB ‘seynutm™ 112 = ,T£o8T
“,Te Bearzep oT Sea fep iad uot20R
1Z2 UD eg 7B wooy WE"gdes ;
iT UD &  3e@ WOOR “Q¢2°3Gep PUTT eH BIiewaydea euy Ul
. “TO6T Gt. "des
JO Wopuoy 1e UOT YTsOd WooN |at2 O1 PPR oa ONTRA BTNL ‘Sez fq yINser
3uz BupdAtazzimm pue gor Aq [OST U38 “3¢Hg OF WAY “Zdag worz uct JOM
aus Buptpyatp sq ‘sep Gog BERXe. agy PIeatoy Paaow sny wooR Stn4
quanenouw epeunoytzroderd ayy yno arnByF OBTe PUT TOST Y3_ Tequeydeg roz
"a'T UsITa ragze sfep co uezaread s# wooy oy} aye, au isuveu ETE
“UOpuoT UF ucou yu LajyeT sABP SEe Bivescg Jo S# pesesrBoid uso ayy
JO woyqyzeod any (@PT#yNo TO) AUT paxTay 2 uy taquea oy :2¥ dave
. *suoy3 taed
petoaItW It9q4 PUe TOST PIg yesTBny Jo se ‘sqotuvTd ayy Tejus pur oye
@enoy pucoes e943 3O dsno ayy uo Bnaunel Q ‘RUBpUBOSY Byuy UO SaTIyY O
aoetTd pre sodoosoroy ou9 osayq, aur om OG “Q8UgG OU4 UT BoeTI 4eq4
wynuym pue ael3ep oyy wodm +a’t seanoy enj go sdgno ay, uodn puadap
PaIOLiyM suRPUnM PUB oUepUNE agi “SedcoPpozcy percraqm Stpyr 904 puR
X}PBI BYR tare (yLITO Jo Vp JG uopuoy woou jo ve suotqtsod syauerd
aug Zuyen 4q) f£~y8nor ayer uso am sodoosorcy ATUO ayy tte dag

"ugrta ceqz2 eXup sez sntd saves gy ST STUL "AléT UGS

hoy poued den (9Unsse ax TOTNA)ZUePTOOR aul "SPNLTIET WLIO! Bp 4B

pue yoymueetn so 38eg serBop yyPT eu} Iepun uroq Sem oy MOUR Sa ONG

‘ouT} joexa au} *uxoq Bas ay Uses mOUX JOU Op am Butsoddns -zpel vase
Atqy BO YUSpTOoR Ue pey TOST Pais “Sny jo satzuu sno * Sutsoddng

*aprtTa go Ap

aug FO Sftaawaqds aqz UT uMOUS SB UOOU UOpuoT so se SxouBTA 9NQ TaqUA

as "ZUepUSOe8Y O44 UO SeTry O UO HGOOSOTOY S,aATIBU BUI ZORLS 3H

{PRG xr pood)y quayeTSiad pue wmoTB Sst yeUt BSuTULAUue sou ‘aanges
quawhoydua Jo ‘ettoTwop jo sedueyo ueppas ‘anuein
. (8assoT PUP SutTeB) Aguow’ regtdny
dese} pus SsaUTIT ueppne sSutaq ere
‘uInpeR pire sruery ‘saqtdnp ‘sremy !syauetTd BuTMOTTOS auq yO auo
to etnr 6 se DUedep Sztens sBeqy "(058 Suyuuta ‘soueztaoyut) Aauow
TG [Terpuya uspprs ve fsuotqeredo ‘yysuel Ijteuy PUP BSaUTIT uappre
(ceypous 09 goeTd suo moray Teaower jo aeBueyo Byq €s,uopfooe
ree tons faquors QUeterIsTP 04 esrnooar eyRy.aenM ay “senso eu
QA SpaueTE auy JO vOTuUM YSTHRUTISTP yourso nos 'raqze304 SsOTS
axe Axnozem pite snus, fung esdoasorey 490m UT Jey FORT eu. OF end
"sy0edsu og8 “o"H “Arnoley ‘snue, BE Yous ‘suo; PEUTqwoo Fo 84208
Tle pue ssoodsn yo e4209 TTe fq posned ore fagy Sejyuarad sO SUATTA
@ ~UaIPTTUO IO soSuTirem asm you og “ABP YVexs 249 BmOUT ey YOFUM
FO pue wey O12 soUBZIOGMyT JO OtemM FUT} SOF FT STU UT FEUsAS eearq} IO

“BZ

--- PAGE 18 of 260 ---

[OCR] “BuUOTQRUeTAGXYS SyR SuUpPepuoo Ey aTRAoog
Trems w uyta nod Stddns [TT TH reRoIg v ‘mayg mou 9,uop TOA ZT pre
LIATZ AOCYS |yZ WO PUNOF SR STON, aI PaoN GUCTFBTASTGGe oyy wy

“00 &,teN, @ aT aaruy
t0 On} UsAa Jo (syoedse) BpUesV UZtH Yoroy, asoToO uy.deax of “~saTy
-}pommeo yo oputq Ttv UT PUB preog aq} Taco Tre peards aq O71 SropRry
IOz atatssodmy ATTeoyyowrd wy FF ‘aezypusooar AT paws Ava nos sy
‘WOM CTY UF UMOTS UBT4 Spogzem royyo qgta porns
-TI aq 04 Sey AITpowwoo sTyy pwe gdoosoroy ou savy Y uozyOo Loy
‘squomeadm yveya INST Of Buzets “Feg Teel Wt zGgt pug ‘wer fo
edodsoroy aq4 aen JT ‘pasn sq-you prhoeye pue yroM yau seop (oBeotyD)
BSBT UT yous’ eSueuoxs uzess ayy jo Buzusdo 44-103 sdoosoroy ayy
“ET/OT/2U VA +22/92/% LT ten/ot/e iLO
fog/e/4 tz19 'gt/S/ol HD ‘oe/FT/T.tat tst/ee7ot iry fee/9t/s
has 1S2/2/2 ¥ $e2/s2/Bt ous ‘OZ/SZ/2 tH 02/27 /oT ORY > TO/$/8 nA
‘ee/Ta/e tpyp fy2/T/ol ts tee/Te/s txag !42/s/6 tuoo ‘oe/ra/e te
*93/6/e tan '2s/$2/2 i¥n 'e2/g/2 tdNp FST/ST/T tao fee/ee/9 taza
fsost/et/y tag foe/te/z san: STT/el/r tan tse/sefe iptee/et/y idx
TOT{S/E 1d -e2z/G/p iPIGLA ‘sogT/e/h ASR :62/T2/e tTIA fs2/st/2 RIS
08 /8¢/S PEd Do tue/ot/e ¥ ‘ue /O1/e Od '6e/e/ol oan ‘ge/¥1/9 toTv
,102/%/2 te ite /ee/T a0 LAT/stZ2 aap '22/2t/y tao teo/et/e tke
fee/GE/Ol sand ‘Te/ee/T sotey austay f42/4e/0T reurpdorey ST4InD
‘Ta/ee/TI tol Se/et/til OA fOe/et/2t tmyy s2/ce/6 tons
"  FSBUTISTT AGS TeupTpuy Tererss fo ystyt w St ezey
"aot, Sutags 2uSTTAvg “dser ‘prepwers ‘oxtn Ioxy siaa payond
BzTeu;0 Ty "oBBoTyy 3¥ GIST 38T sequeceg ‘ze3gnq tzesT Uh, Toren
“e9r300 S26ZT 3zT Aum “Tetaties UT sx00%e fozst Uist Areniges “leqqny
‘SET Wy Sunp “septa SToSsT UIBE YOTVH posstT 4eitz Teess "sn fPo6Tt
Gag ACM papery 48ITT ‘ITO paasuoj3o0g ‘uesT wie Arenuep pepers dart?
(zeEns pIzom) pf awBns ‘eTdmexe roy eaey ey “SaBueqoxe uo papery 3SITF
ATaa Hat¢pTpowmes agduy awy4 943 AOF apem aq wao edoosoroy ARTpommMoD ¥
. _, “BzpUsover Of Jueytodmy ST STUL
“3T UT epRtq 03 psyzUPa suo JT UO HY OT mor papery, usasg aaey PINGD YT
‘zeramoy fTres you pip ATamts yaenf 47 ‘epezy @ pesmvo aaey PTNOM 4eU4
ATsnoyasrad parxznsoo goadse yuuyxrodwr ou qey, yary amy of ann *4n0 ‘sep
3x 94} UsAR Jo HT“ZT Fe 20 OT*OT 38 9g 4uBTwW YY ‘pepery sea petty
VT amt FORKS oN TOL NogwM 40U 0q "aq Adem asyo oq) sv amT4 aduTARe
au3tr4eq 10 prepueig ‘HYOT BF eWT ouy “aovTd ButyetT pro ey ynoqw 33
-Z0Z.pue-pre6q Stq any roy adcosoxoy wet wv oyna uayqy ‘yprvog Bq ats y
@} periaysuvry ue. pus eBusyoxe isygo amos a¥ ZO Ging 244 UO PBBBIT
$327 J 8ST 40648 @ oseo UY *sBusqoxs we uo AvuyIBTT Jo ABP qarty aqy roy
esta “(eSuegore ue Uo pazeTL FOU J}) PONS BS} VPEOTITZAeo YOOyB IsIFT
a4 eTT} 9%% Tox edoosozon ayy SupRem xq ‘syooge roy fquomeerBe 3yy
Buyusrs fo aut, eu 10g diyesouzzed @ sy ‘IO UOTpErOdCOUL euy FO OMT}
aug TOY 4y ZuypHew fq fsodoomoxoy sSeutand IOS fqartq xrtaq4 JO 9mTy
9uz 10: open'sButso usETIG coz sdoosozou plos—onty @ ven fv oy

adoasoroy pTOj~aaty
eup FO BST QeoT{dde Tuo your,

Te

R22 HHH

*SUCTEBOTEZR0eI Tox AressSacsu ATeinptosoe sy jzuauisnlpe u OF STUL “jzanp
~H Ol BABY oa BUTPPR Fo Feeqsut yeqq Atuo ‘uequR eT otnpecord sures
U9 §F¥%eU |uZ OF OO'HL OF ABP auo fo PE ST wos Lea SHxvau ayy 04 Lup
H10 MOTE SoSvoIoSp TOTZOM ayy usyy “SRLGset poarrED yeB ox rapioe ut
GaN PUB TaPTSuOD OF BART am aotieraTJTP Sty, “eMoys stromayde ony se
OO" PT 20u PUB ET yT 8G plnom wotjzou s,uoop ayy yuBtpupim ge 90° PT

ANG “OO"FI 99 FOU PTNOw WOyZ0u BuOOH O49 ‘AEP ZerTZ aug go USOT
Taqze sinoy g “sxtozaedsady ‘Imoy 28d azrutW T 01 4UuNOWe ATeyerntvosdde
PIMOm eseo STU UZ soteteFZTP Tengoe euy “(Spzeyer uoTyOM gyLOOs STz
ZF e8veroep 20) pesds UT eseerouT Tenper! 2 aats of ‘pauopgzocdard aq
yENm UOTYION StuL *segnuTm pZ oTCZeIeY, Sex 3XeU BYR 04 AEP BUCO WOZT
wWrpeAsTaoce syL * 1900%T 20 PBSISUT 1FZOPT APP FeN} WO Useq sAB_ PITA
woTZow St Usyy “Oey yPE T Fe UOOU Ye ST AT JT ‘reaemoy ‘ABD SuTMOT
“TOL AML "1O0—obT Uaaq ove pfnom wot;om gt “za0uep OO"ZLT #8 UCOU 42
Asp 4Xew aq, pue raourp g saerBep Q ye fep auo fO Strameude aq ut
GOOU 4B ST UNOR ayy FI “(Aup 4xeu v44 FO woCu of Aep euc fo uceL wors
UMoys eoUatariTD Tenzoe aul *a°t) paeds [emrou at, Baaow 217 BOOR 4B
2Qy UBEM P[nOm BTUL “Beqnurm pe BT 4xsu ey4 Of ABD suo DOTE uoom

eu} Fo pagds uy aseerouy ana yeu; ABS BN aT atduwers eTamts 8 aATS og
“HOTIZ 9% OF TItm From pesy eT34TT y *weug Past you op nok adooseroy
poo? sFeraawz auy IOr easTTaqa yx ana aT Tol aTAReTteae satya TeToeds
aig alayy "yom go0szed e exyet 04 UOCTZEILepTSuos ofuy texe1 aa yen
BTUL “ALTUNpeIs Babeesloep IO SasBarOUT AT Inq ‘quamom suo uy toepyero
ETF998 BQ Op Zou Boop AT Zeuy POOZZzepun et yy ‘AYP yxeU eg) LeMOTS
zunOWe LEQ sAoW AGW ZT IO ABP Yxsu ayy Taqevyl yunour dey, aaom Kem 47
"sa4nura of teasd IO OZ SB Gonm su FO UOT OM UT sotUlaLarZTp « St alengd
Seut? 28 22N PUTT OM 4Xeu O43 09 Sep auo mor LoT_ZOW SuoOoH aug 92
JOOT OH USM *Guemoaom Shep eto Buparp socom eq} FO UoTyEPAeyar ZO

UOMVLVT IOV BY fesNiuoo OU O4 SR OS PUUOTJUSW Jou saBq J To4T stg

“But,
~FPOOL STIG TITOmM ale avi, sadoosorog aTButs rox 4ynq ‘Xreu YoTNb fot
pean oq UBS FETY Poysemw & ZOU ST FT "LLtM ALerNs patyy 243 20 pucoas

StS “AQTNBSl eATS 20u aaop 4taAw’ euO asHBO url "aROTR Rgqnop sve vata
sedoosoroy duem AZTRder 02 aTQe Useq saey YT POuSEW STUs USTp

*Quamom 4eq4 TO WIOJ PTOS—-a@ATI 847 UT apew aq ystm adoo

~BOTOY ONL “Auers ety FTF OF Ad LT’ py 78 pauadaey gatq ouy azoyoarayy

*seqnuym ZT ernoy y aTendea Soy yotum LUvL
CTiZORpap Of SAP aa aRBD STT, UT) OL66 SZ°s
C6re Te "et
r3ngy sagnuzu pup esor3ep
a20u% esud 09 pertnbes aut} ayy BMYAZTTeZo7T fo pre 99 UTM PUTZ ap
"RAgnUW Se Saert4#ap F IO F°GT Bet SF-TE
9} DOOM JO woCoU PUY peqtem UoTYTs0d 9G} Usemjaq aoustezJJIq iemsuy
2teourp EP *te wsed ucoy ety, SOP ont YOtqa
98 "$8 Ta0UuVgQ BT Buteq uooM sayy Jo woTRTZsod uGOU ak, pue (streweyda
OU WOLT USHBI) Tear Buteq Ap ayy Jo-uoTyow ¢,uoom’ ayy rudTgsand
"uoTpourifucs =e uyTa oD
OF SARY 84 JEUQ URBAN PTTOM STH] *Taoweg ep'te ye PUNOy st wonges stu.
¥eq3 Ava mou an ZaT “QuaAe Oy yITOJ 3ysnoIG 2ey5 Uindeg Bt Yt FRyR
autisee Seu G4 Usgp ‘(eae SUBTSs g) toTyTeoUdo ue 10 (fewe suets 2)
ecenba @ (Ups ewes) uozzounfucco’ ew emuIoy yoTYs USTs amoe 10 OL-Se
DUU 6f"2T_Usemioq punox az urTgRG 3eNG st eR} ‘xTper uxnyeg OF
UooH Pareardord ey, so yoadse we put em Buywagsy {pezenter) z¥ days

of

--- PAGE 19 of 260 ---

[OCR] E

‘gauo IETN3al aut BE [law 6B (BUOFZTSOd) Bioedse

ONIG ous SYJOU BOPNTOUT 2eU9 eTAeL, Pazoezroo Teuys 6 sRBU pire GBapt

stay Atdde ey ‘auoyzzyeTNoTes Ton ynoyy ys ATROTNO soTSue ag] arnsvew
WROD am ZRTR OF LOTPBOTIT Tw Ss @ Sf papritte [ se eed ug

‘OST 8 ,oATZRU By FO Teds Ace TOF [hzaen pue

quourmred sf OTe Taq30 ayy sTTise ‘Teas yous apew-ar og 093 eaey AaqR

esnedeq fetqey ayucedese Uz ayer pm suotyTsod pessorsozd aul *peroxrzty

evep war egt AT99RT pie perortyqu xtpar 9nq vend auepinm ety JO Baud
wi, wey, ‘xfpex vyy yo sqauetd ayy y8zts eyey Of 4SeFane T

‘zepro retnSor uz vscyy sovTd ou

i *so0rfop egt On. OG'OE HOLT ALTISEL £8S*ET 03 O°OT wots Uany

oe 05 fu } eeucrqoas sores OFUT wey} sz0redos om Y4tH. ZIU9S OL

“65"6 0% O Worzy eaaon, z
‘onuy SBuoTeq gy sdoosoroy ay} pue UZTS ATGEss0SU BY UITH BetLep oes
AIBG oh *seaigep o¢ 03 Gn setseap Oo worz © zapz0 Teo prowne Uz MST 303
oy Sutqdmoz9e 48TL 2 Ut weqy ayeraunua OF pasooid om ‘partagte
snauetd og} pue apeuu: are sadoosoroy softies sqz Tle zessy te¢ doze
“suotgtsed ‘.
XTPBI aly TOS peuteydxe saPT 34} APIs paraSts OsTe aszaa Asatl
“OST wee ‘3deg Jo se uoTzTa0d Wy. TO°S 949 StTenbe yoTys Zs6T $ dais
tue

"ny JO preg ey} TOF sqeuatd oy} fo eucTQg7sod passertSoi1d ayy
"OT pue ot sazed
MO WMONS SR SeTNI ay} PUY OL “Sta FO PTY 9, YZta Peonposd useyy ere

MepUnM ory we suoTgtscd poxzorzqyw XYFper aul
suoTZTs0d perorzym auep 492 13 P Fee oe ase

‘aTapouted owes oyg uo oper atom BiIeyzyO ay, TTF
‘anamey Te*se = vg eg enid ,TzQ8
iT2,f TO TOS =OStOOPLET “OOd * EST = OF*IT ¥ Brg senuesn
‘sniney Bf"OT = B1,e enTd 82,8
sz*s ‘ous oy} = OO°OT ¥ Sz°R

‘SaTZY BToL = TY BE°S SNTA 105,T

ta't rapoyt

1O%el SO9TBOOT HOS! FEE0S AO Tey ¥ SET = IT'S X O's feren

, “QT Fa 92 = Ta BEqST ENTE IB409
Iff_9 sOVIEPSe= OSISBSeTE Fo BRPXLPY = G'E FX LZrs tos¥

“Te BEo4 = ta o SMTA 18EoF
xO 687 X Tze stenbs 679 xX Teg rsnus,

teTdwexra
amo zoy spouetTd ony FO suOTZTSOd atmepunm yz 993 04 Pesn Batnsty

16E_% sO9asg9Z= OG! BSETLT

£o

iit

BEEERERERPRRULEII

“WE LE % ve O2°ST uo et “OCF
BS Of °ST @ 3B OF'S & €Toe oun ¢
JA BEET % TA GIT W Sloe UsON
up OF°O2 ¥ UD OF'"E @E ot urojas
UD OFS ¥ 3D O'2e G Sao¢ zeaytdng

2D OV'k % 81 22 we of STUEIA

BL ete Pl m B28 BPON

T¥ GPTET 7 I¥ Bs'Ss me oe BIR

Tq 46°48 F Td GEST T ueyd *osy

Fd 6°TL 9 td fo mM Tf5S BNUsA

by og*ee v by og*et w ST ung

by 2 ¥ 80 OF *Oe a eg Arnoran

BO OF°e PPB 4e u ge eungdex

suorysteod suapunm Aq*ro8 03 aaey 37 yUBoED qemiet wory (x ipaz

Se0p szaym wseszeq S¥ 47 Tez woy zeuetd

sAMOTLOI Be eTqgey F SRSM JT UOTRSIZSHITT razyreq roy
tSlauetd suwpunm Jo uoTABooOT rw doge
: “OT pue g e8ed ses
is2tq jo se 85 aueTd) S Leueld xtper ayy JO uoypRZRoo07 Sy daye
SwTZteod euepuntc ayy aInSTzZ Of IazeL UOTSTATP eppsuy syy peal om asnee
-edg ‘h2ed 2/T 974 epteut ‘uqfust argue o49 oovtd om OePTegro 'sytne
~O |44 ZTajue ATereu [TECS se “baPTATD srg ere Bastou ama TI¥
‘UOTSTATD aug UT Cire oO SDR aa SUuvOM ETUL "RIOTT CO'eE
stenbe TT"S svid gy el ivshoy pusvaS a%4 FG dsno ang Gosar aenm
84 Usuy “TTB Tayyoue ppe on (17 Sp of postape ST 47 Buyqoayo s65)
seeo Ou} Ul “wseNoy 4BITZ oy Jo deno wRoap DIC ou ST STUI PUR BLATT
6P"ST ON BaATS sty, [{I"g Teqy}Zoue Ppe om VIATT BEG eBEeNZ CE “FTe93T
FUBpPUSOSe GU SUM ULOEP 4SITF Vl “9sMOY YBITI eu Fe weoap pus ona
Fo deno auq sw eratq Be"Ss UTwage puP [t's (93254 2o°LZ) ZuLpueoss
90} 04 Sutppe uyZa0 a4 ‘asnou qsztsJ ayy Jo wedep wROU, SUO Jo 172kUaT
ats ST STL "ToS ST 9TRSer oul “g Aq oPTATP em OTITEA STUL "EO "FZ
Tenbe go’er snid ee"e :ugBuet oy4 quasazdar (10922) Pepper exrqry ut
asoy. STITC -ezozy] Oo Youer eM 179 OBaTA Uy 3FeT Eloe SLB arany ides
“BZOTT g& OF OBITA 22°42 Worl tasnoy Jet so qaBueL
tATTENPTAFPUT UZUST sxpjptis Iteu} yeapE sanevam
“Buot Arpenbs‘ezred 9 O3UT asnoy yore apTaTp tg¢é days
*ATTSBS Busta Suysoddo
au; PUTS Nok AtTau Tite Atqua rsRUeo au, ‘sults aytaoddo say, esn yng
sdgno eytsodde 9U% UO sear3ep owes eug ATZORKe Jeyuy. “estoy wre ayy
so dano au $xeu f(etary ez) puoos 374 go deno syq yxow fcoBrta $)
. uyet 2U3 Fo dens ayz pxrau $(O@% g) eBNOU UATT 9y4 st Aqua 1x8
FB 408 eSed fo atael tata ames 1AerI109. PUB "O° 929 Tegus ‘puases
*(OF2TA 48°25) FOxT3 pUepusosy ayy Bupieque Data sheaTe UTZeT
pve good Cicer
bse OP FUSLesTTP omy, owes vy} IOZ SBY SpNgTAeT JO aaivap yove
i 30u) USBON Br SPNyTIeT aq, 10; stxemayds on3 mory uexs, ‘sasnou ST
3U2 FO sdeno eyy uo BeayWUTu pue SaelZep aq Tf days Be rajzuea ay
“(2-@ Sefed) Apvar euop
Srom feyg este2e0 ‘easnoy uy JO Bago aqt Soot eee ‘tom’ ua saneyy
30U OP om aetL "pys oul “esoa80rd prNcus ATOM ecg BE 4seOeTOZ PUr
oe ee SyIBGO UptH sdoosoiloy eTdwee aqgatdmoo any yo uoti9aIg

--- PAGE 20 of 260 ---

[OCR] «gn ?

payrem Sy 47 ‘usyts sues ayy Uy

ABae

10 GVerssp SI useqa ‘87 se

sutd
snta
antd
entd
sntd
anid
entd
anya
surd
antd
and

Buta
antda

santa
surtda
an ta
antd
enqd
anata

anta
entd
e«td

antd

entd
antd

entd

enatd

anq ‘uorgteod teuTStxo stay mors
UsAtS sy woTazsod Teut stro 1ag0K

go's. antd mu aungdex OD 2O°PT
yl 22 R OOFNT—-d BS PL-ET
e "GE wo snuvin eg Z "eT
GELS Rumg sy cevet
OS *4& antd yg sungdex eS Og "ET
22°22 sud wy *osy tA 2e°eT
£ "22 gy exen TT 2 “ST
00°22 sntd ¥y om 86 00°ST
¥S "9g PR UCOR zy PS*TT
BP"22 RH OINTd UD Bp" TT
BL" 9E—~——- om HE OPOR by EH TTT
e2"92 FY Woony Tr ee°Tt
[Ite ante A coByY F zg TT°TL
2° QZ———-------- youanqes BO 2 TT
42°32 we teqzydne es 2e°OT
R2°Sz R ePoN BL Be*OT
Te "Sz BnTe % Ssnuezn BL Te"OT
ST *S@—-—- na — ONE OF ST “OT
eS" Pe AH wrngeg Up 29°65
6E° 2 sntd wy smue,a Iv 62°S
be Ta Artodem ap € "6
oe *e2-—----~——-— wy ATaoTaT™ RS Ce°S
OL EE. BNI 7 ON BE Of °S
h°ee sni@ mr 82eR FA Zhe
So °2e HR snuep Ta BL 74
Te "Ze SNe my sua, TT TE7S
BL Eran nnn ~— Hj Slax t¥ SITS
o” TOL OF FO Of °9
og rte entd 3 &xrnodeT ep LE72
8S °QZ-—-—-- envte y éxmogom up gg°s
Te “og U seue, TA TES
@ “02 antd _My tanzeg of G "S
SP°Sst Sntc ma ung eh See
BE “Ol----—------ IST. enue. OT GE"
ge "st BOT AR BOON aT Sib
e276 a cegtdne eo SerP
£3°St snd my urges BE eS*s
6P Troan TONY TI Gre
2o°8E ante yw uoom td 22°S
82-8 sntd y epom os BE"s
BL Cl—e-e—= BNTG Y OWT-g 9D A2T“*S
co°e T antd wo uooy FAS "2
oo'st Mu on up oov"s
La 27 antd my eaux ta 49°2
G2 °Ul~--t-—----— = OB AF ge°!
Of 2Zt HR eungdexy tO Of°S
SB"2t Suid wR UNE OS Sere
T6* £t---- ~-—— FE TeyTane “DO TOS
BS°St suTd mw sntergy eo BS” T
O° OT antd TOY O9NTE FO SP°T
6e°s Hw pUNadex UD Bz°O
"aTdmere mmo 10F

apn 64 Apuer ‘stotqzeod ysnid,se Tle 9B re—TnZer SufutTeqdoo
Boortep Of 91 O WOIZ SuGTYTaod paxty FO aToRel Tauta

ss

i

AZIES OF eney Tye ypRap
aU$ asMeoaq sn[TA yoRa O41
Sayfucteq srtegep 2y3 gpwo Seu acy)

Uoysejox

poere 2p Weug

TH S82eN tA eee
WY Teqtdne 90 escur

NN UanzeEs aH
Te STA TT
We auncder eg
Ta onsa,
mY Tsiténe
WH snurszy
H (Day

NK fstorey Bp
Bg A auniday
On 8B
Hose TA

Ww sanorayq ug
UO aD

B tO
lz'ée
e232
BE"Pe
20°82
Te 'sz
It 'Sé
ee 71s
(creme
Of "Se
22°22
BS*0OZ
00°22

2

UR
MH O87 id
Fm ung
m 03nd
my une
m ez
TH e@PpoNn
Ma Sniwig
Re canges
Re uco7y
R ePpox

7 ung

- OUnLE
jt wo8OR
¥OynTe
E uooH

yu kinzug
yw Bnue.7
y epoy

Y sity

a Un

es
oS
VT
oT

ee "Sl
yS'° TT
Sv°9t
SETLT
Spit
SF'ST
2S°2T
ee°tt
Bs 'ST
£s'ot
ecctt
22°OT
Se'st
Flot
2 er
eT°St
ey eT
2-UL
& “et
S2°el
© CET
ST'OT

uyoeTd ‘aacne eu, Jo alqey pasentpy

NN SnUPIQ eT
THY OF BD

ym aungday 25
fur Arnozer es
RY "OSy TT
Ryu OR Ud

mu frrozey ep
my “osy iF

i Siey sty

R sntaa tg

Fo urngeg up
R Loytdup. up
uw resgraap. ep
H Snte, TA

w '9de uO

adnerS geauz, o4UuT
wat> Surgnqysgstp ‘suolztsed ,eyauertd zo atary, yanoy

eo*s
& °6
ee-g
GEL
OT*a
Oo'e
Te's
bor
£e'y
6b "eo
oo's
20°32
og 's
oc’e2
Tce
Bz "oO

uoyiTsed pg eaey genm estate nox

OOS OF
WrreIs,

OOCNORK ADM

--- PAGE 21 of 260 ---

[OCR] 22

7 +Wy wk este

ott se
Btw dh rete
XW OW BL 662
xe 2sf2e
pase
st‘ce
96 '0z
44. 8T
BS‘ ST
ee! pT
oz‘ et
Toot
goth
gsis
ian
se‘T of%
9076S
2859S
89° S
6468S
os! og
TL‘ er
26‘St
y  BLISF
Wink eS te
Btw xd s¢'et
ati Le
66! ¥e
B41 28
6350
OF‘ a2
ta! se
201 +2
Cww aed cette

¥9‘GIoz2 Ge*s3deg

ce ‘21 22
Be St HAYLE Set
te 92’ ST ge
2 40) et Se
Bt esi ee
ot os‘ 9 Ze
te! Te
gt et! & o&% 02
z eR
et ss‘ sg LT
at « 2S
tt ge‘ gs at
Ot ati TS Sst
6 86‘ BF aa
8 6L' oF eT
ZL os! + at
3 Te! ap Tl
S zz oF oT
E else 8
ze sof ge é
. T 3
T, “AN loosen on G2 ge 8g
os oN SAE BO. Le ¥
6 Se, 52 :
ee OL, BE ad
Le Ts! og Ti adag
oe ae! BL if
Se St! OF os
Be ye, ST 6z
ez Séi TT eg
ae ik O88
re Bt Ss gz
ge 66°2 ye
BT 08' 00 olé £8
Lt AYU wsts' 9s 22
ST 9S Te
§t #3 0g
aL ag 81
et 8 et
at 44 zt
tt St 9T
OT oF St
8 ty ca
g ee et
L 92 Et
8 pe TI
¢ eg ol.
> or 6
¢ be 8
2 2 ZL
T 7209 ge 3
og tz Ss
62. 61 ¥
LTo02 © “Bny

. (Se s3ud etqe, wos QL UNNTOO puooes Ut BLOadey)
da 2568T pag qonSny ‘aTdmexe xno gq uoom pesppecdoud ATTeg

BESREE EEE ERY

NA

aE

“uotqsanb

ay ep ayy og da pag aenSny aouts pay yeuuTd stqy wopyou TeuotaTPPe

2q} 03 Sutprosoe anTeA STU FONTPE O} wavy ax “gyooase Ino ammeseoam

ea Usta ong “BRYA o@rt, GO’OT ATeatqoadsar ‘oZ2T, o0°SE ipessexzord

Arnozreg fo (uooy yo. suopyrsod Avp 07 AED) aToe¢l IMO UT axew ATTBupsTIC

Op om CoTum Argua mmo aan qou ysrnm oa Sedoneozoy ovy YSnory, Sutsse|ed
UooH Ino wory pessecBord Aqnoray Of yoedsu ue YOe|al op am ust :

"BoynuqE g'o = S98 3 SOT

isge YT Suyptatp Aq uTesqo a” uotyom “trap any

Beanugu COT Io ee" Tiegel PIs yenBry 179 2eGt prg gonSny mozzr azosereu4

pea ArnoIay FO uofzyou vy] ~ (2Pol TO *UTW Tol SNId saqnuym gy ava sep

stu3 dutrp uotgoy "oZzta To*~e sous TOsT u36 *3des foBzta et°se

Syiemeyda sq} ut SH0us TOST te "3ce9¢ redoosozoy Ino zo eTdwexrd

. sfep cog Sutrtenbe senpea a

uae *3deg 04 poaredwoo gentea LOST uaa! -adoe} 426T P2g yendny o0mR og

pasdeys Teacoquy sy4 Taacn 04 ST PUaUsTOUF STUL “Jateytd eu, Jo yuan

Tetouy UoOTjOU ATTEp aus Sutppe Aq quawzanfpdspasu 314 aveé 344 Sutanp
aqep areyzo Aue 20g “zoBt Pre yenbny ror poo sé ~u0 ST STQel FTUul 7

BATE ung c82t, us*se une OF17A 29°HT
SUT enuwin *447Fes 00° er anuegn *44TS0g boret
quUBpueDsy e107] TI"S2 sntd yuupusosy BiatT oT'TT
AMBION OSITA OO'SE Beta Axrnoroy oS2TA 00°OT
Stid_urnyeg uroopzadeg gg pe urnpes urcotiden 67's
BNTG ste OFar00B QO'Og Sre;] OTCTODg 00'S
anwedg EIQTT € '6T BuTO ene, BIgtTT & “+
OUls FEIMSH Cf°ET SETA ogntg Tuypmep oe ‘s
Bard ti Seer 02°68T seyydup urcotideyg of °¢
ey INOS OST SUTC apox ofdzcs: °T
anid ug "4deg gt°st puny dar Tooues et
Oa BNTd oN ST°ST C@T "O°m BT°O
TUOTIBIOI OUT SUGTZTSOd arsy4 eouTd on
BOTS BT'St Sey "oO" BI"O
satd et 'st sunqden Tecueg et*T
antd se-e OFDTQ TUTGED ES °ST
anid 6y°se wanqes orooTrdesg 6p'S
SNTc O8'ST zsqydnp urootrdes of’s
sntd OO" BE BrUeIQ "aTtes cO*eT
. sntd pO°T BDO OTdrooE FO“OT
surtd OO°GE sieRp otTdrosg 50°¢
antd OL*IT guapteocsy eraty oT “Se
antd ¢ -% SnLoA BLATT £ “ET
SNTG 4g*s5¢ ung of2tA uG"F7T
antd 90‘oT Arnotay O8rTA Cots”

a
. U3ITQ JO 9UF4 Ye LZEGET PIS yesny so ee
adoosezoy atdwes smo roz suotgtsod possacSord zo eTaey

gs

--- PAGE 22 of 260 ---

[OCR] Supughtaas onBZzZ 04 ST YF QUYITOAMT mOU NOs wONS PTnoYS fep THToeds
SQL “MOUS TT Tm SUOTFETNOLYS Ouxe Se SPIRATALIR aUuo poos ayq pue
S8ITI JOoUeT oTQETcAVzUM Ue Dey BEGL Uiog srenuep so dep ayy “prevaan
Stream O8Te UoOTUM YUBPUSosy aut O04 Gy e AQ PaaoT [oj ‘outrg we ATAoTNO
8903 guepusose ug “feaeaoy ‘sutT 3u3 cquUy wAUtA 8, SANG UTNZeS GAT
Ui ATTIRITOdmayL “Aep 4xXau ayg STT Yee ArnozeR pood v qngq ‘hep auo
ZOy 4oeGsee eTOROMezuN UE ‘eT T,xEB Snuedy) ‘s8etzap ct ung :3apaorror
ale sLoAase pooR fo Burs wv Pups oy "UoOTaOeITp Oug SeBuvyo ummyeg
0} afSue sarZep gl & UeYe Z2oSL UAL “oeq amp 3st SUTTIIP Buy JO pus
anL “urnzag soT ‘shuea erences ‘snus, gp ‘Aznoreg SET we Aq pawo[Tog
Sy} USP PT PUGS alavlOABLUN STUL “UO PaBsarsore 944 wory aTSue aarsap
OST # S208 ‘oR UeyM UaOT "ACO TIZUN 4BeT CImOUS Brey BTU, AQ pasted
saoudn sul "suTTI@P BTYZ BUS YOTUM ZEST WIS ‘100 ‘sSreQ Og STTRxES 2
Seyover poaserscid uocR ayz Tzun ‘anueg Gel @ Aq pauoT {os ‘sa¥R SOT
4Q Ia48l ‘OM GOT @ Aq Patrysaueaut BT Puary UMOp ayL ‘stow souO LTTty
UMOD OTTOASL OF SEY SUTT TLCS Uy “4Gag uo OOH pesseuZ0ud |yy jo
UOTITSOGGO 04 sauroo ATMOLAN Tryun ‘presan spusq Suz —~19939q 974
04 oBueqo © yRIOLr Suyzo ptnoss uotzounluco Arnoiey ueya ‘puge jengny
TYRUN ‘PIleMUKOP UINY OF SBY atTT —-atqezoaezun tseerSap sy snuoq ‘gOSsT
“Qaol yonSny uo saazize 4°6T PLE pS8ngny saqze yosuse Asati eal
*pezséyuue poyroa
@y4 SuTINp [Torun pTReys astt )PATPEU ByQ Abu 9O4 saous eed uo
YoRays SUL "SsATIIe TayyOUe TTZUN SUOT os geet goouse ue yay SuTze
—Ouiemexr Sey Of TT suTT ‘pe eBea wory exey aa SPOaszra vUuUL “aATIEeU On9
n3TQ, PTMous Aegs Se syuaAa JO GaZayse we oye ow ‘poystamoo usty
“sfauela pessarso01a aq4 sq passed
UOTIONW TBUOTITPPR AYY JO o1eo aye4y O04 Se OS ATYaESa0eEu Tessueyja wey
Sutasn{pe pue sjosase pesserZora 9Q3 Butrequa ‘sqoaage Io ataey ant
MOI sqoacee ety Buztayuso ‘aszo ane up Aup qote saynutw 6i‘¢g Sutppe
*‘qinoryg suod By sacosoroy scp JO leak altiua ayy few Stuy vz
*parorrye
x}PPel uooy Cf pessar@ord wooy so Yooase aarSap gy any @IOpSsq Uuop,oesry
Trews @ ‘gost ‘yagog Ananuer Toy sles ety, ‘pessarBord uoey ey3 Aq pa
~zoadse Bujteq pesyseaBoza ywepusosy 50 aoeTG at, se BIQtT e2°eg BTeRos
“ups ST SNTd wagty OL"Se iUTeZq0 ay "UOCTZTBOd “eSBT Pxe “Suny ayy Oo pp
BM SOTRA STU] “Sagnutw eT JO Bagnutw eG zt uteiao pue LT'o fa got
AToOTg{nm on ‘297 etv Bgsl Use| Azenuer TLT+ 4egl Pay any wors posed
eaey yeug sAep JO Iaqunu suy “Aep Jod agnotm Tr G SlwneSs Ggooige ang
"(shep Gog) avek ve gaqgnutm gp JO aynt ey, ye Sasserdord ytupuessa aqL
“EL SFeG worl. PUT, om JuaVIBL Pe sul ‘LEG Pro 1SKAny aouTS reqyrny
Pessor80ra seq eceT ‘440T Szunuup uo Axjue ano 0} Supproocoe 906 5°
+p cuuse UR UFtM UooR 443 AQ PayowaT St YOTYM PasserZora yuepuscsy
*PeXTI SVs Uuotsserzozd fq uotypsod 84} eouts
pesaeta oaey 3B03 SsAep PET OF BUTIND alow Io voOTqow aqntta g e yNOAT
AUTIQ 04 wOTS 003 seam UINZUg eBNeoEq jUaMZSn[ pe OU sPeau ZEST UIS
dtaqtaceag uo eS9T UR UZ UooH 9y9 Aq Poyoves ‘paoserJord urngeg
‘aget “Geez requeosg uo pasansoo ‘pups om ‘BTUL “308aBR fq
- AqnoleR Baesea UCoR paessar#oru aqq Aep oq} ATesppoedser ‘uotzysaod
49 908 puy pag’ Sny yo uopzpeod Arnorey 8yz 02 "UTM BO sBaT. PPE aK
“Seznuym Bo LO BaynuTm ofO semqqy BxéRD OfT TH#Z0R ‘zequessg Uy It pue
TOQUSAOCN UT OF ‘xreqozog UT Ig **F0eg UT OS ‘ZenBny ut BAep ee
TENT. PaInatTsy spt Arnozay aty osuq PTROYB 47 Aep agg 04
P9408TS Sew adoosoicy passerZoud |g AUP an4 OTT ‘at ‘2eet ‘Pig
ZEn3ny souTs pasaeTo amt, at, *Aep qoes sagnutu eto go eer aqy
fe outs pesom 41 “4“EGL ‘pig yanSny uo usaq pey Axnozay ozatu
eoe8Td aus sy} atu IN "“SSl ULTI zequeseg uo ecetd pesser301d
9 4anorey ceqoeer pessarSora ucoy yeu 920U am etamers Imo uy

ae

BEUREREREERRARAEE AE

t
tape © 9¢ 82 og
| St Fr WET og Bt
26! Re eT
ge' te at
pS* OT 9
geet st
ST’ ST +
a gory 26521 et
sheen = Ey eto Tt at
63'8 It
‘ oT

SH +A Y OFS

' 12e*¢ 6
cote 998 6
certs 2
rolas 9
Sp'ss g
gefes v
40° Ts ¢
BetBy @ Bot
69194 T ‘ue?
tetey 8
Te

xaos ator se
twe, Pion)

a Oe BASS 4g
gsfee 9g
gerig £2
27 62

SL R+W P ge‘ 92 ee
eee te
og

wi Qo Tylor oe
22° 8t
© £OST Bt
281 5qph 17 $B°CT at
Sof Xt 3T
9F°6 ST
Lek cas
go's et
68's
Wah 02600082 IT
seeiZap Jo Lequmu au) wate asortast Ts'@s ot
Pogou aq yan B40edse Tango LIe wees 5
PSH | wiawek ee
™ eset cavinvaly PATE OS! 8S S
Soet — unphusardver 206 or y
. Vv. C8 ett $e 4
80s i as
m7 oe oege ge
ae ° agi ss 62
 zzuda’ 40 E,
gefee Be
22
TPeuTezar aq pTRoYs $0 Ts
Aaqy {ean woumos uy ars mawsad 38,82 88
Bjoedsy Jo BuoT TUTAaIAgY Up LF ieeohe FE “AON
@ Le6T

gc

--- PAGE 23 of 260 ---

[OCR] EEEREREE

atte ==

Sat

i f i r cesartt 4

st Or mo
ANYONE

Utem znoz eyy

BEGE Gi ol
asnanw

Stor si at @
MER MALAE

eroz gi os
waBCi30

seo st ol @
aaEMIAON

St Ora oF a
waz 290

“sivak Tie 1Oy guouvmrod ore pR pue We ‘A ‘yu ‘sedoosoroy

‘apak yous epem eq 03 say edessozoy passazf0zrd wat ¥

‘Zved ays yBnory4, snupyuoco nok sem staL
"RO wat4 mOry pPusrqusOp w awoys prnoa

sinjoyd InOA ‘saatisre PUBPUSOBe oy} 07 arENdS sya etolag UT BuTMOO

yoedse osrSap sz ucey stua aap nos

OF

Butsoanns ‘ostaragqzo ‘étqzo0eca00

--- PAGE 24 of 260 ---

[OCR] “uUTsIey UMOoyR Be sdooB Tog ayy goare nos ‘payotdmco ata
‘egnoy Wig JO dsno sowooeq pag jo deno 4TTeULS pUe osnoy wig ant
Zo deno omdooq PTNoOm pug oy} FO Gano o4% pUue seNcy B49 eR, Fo dence
e803 emoDeq PInow YIZT auz Jo deno eya ‘u3S amy Fo dano 944 suacaq
PINK YATT eyy soz deno ey, ‘xPPeR OY} OF UMOP OF O43 ‘ZUEDUEOsaP
6%4 OF T8AO oMOD PTNOM JUBPRIOBR |, OJ antea ayy yun o8 ‘pasres
81 94 PTNOm TT'SP'4T OWT “PTS LopuN wWaoys Sentes eq puy payne
—u0d 94 PTNOw oh TOF Fosnoy JO siQuy su “BTIMay Y ZT UTPesqo puy
SIT Woy US Fo SUTRA “PTS. 903 OF BInCY BT PPe PThOM ow ‘woTITy
uieqynos uy ataqaamos ‘a‘'y ‘ieRg ST ‘UaNoOg gy UI0Q BRK (SG; SBed)
SAPPWU Ano Bupeoddng “suszZ og} asTaast of asuy om ‘HepTseq ‘puy
‘aIneYy gl Vigxe UR BMY} [ReLepTe IOJ WUOTZBTNATeo IeTNBax 944 04 PPE
03 Baey om ‘UmOJYedYy 10 Baidy BOLUS UT UL0q ST stloawoB eRRO UL
rsopngtzeqd Usreyqgnow zoos sdoowotoy JO UOTZdDoIE 944 TOF SROU TRToOEdg

t
t
tig
(T9N
ASUHD XID Rel

~ ee =r \ S Ss
in

ym YOUN

eer!
ey

"91g oy
(2 Me okg

ae (2°3te ass) 9° 87yz

--- PAGE 25 of 260 ---

[OCR] {a &

. os

RY Le*to'g uopnoy = tt"

“SIT "Op US ATT. “PTE

owt} TR0OT AY ZE"IO'S OnTF
WIION Ob °3RT
35UE ST *Bt0T
TOSET PIS “any uzog

PF cae tret iA
aZeraae) coerettet :ATpep
onl? ane paeseeey os a3d sor)
199ET GL BUTBRATOAP + T2Z4eT
(4261) seek sty, uoT}Om a, UooH
Seer pre Iny-ze/e"Bny read 3uq
xOf epeu ST 4rado 9TyYs FO
eaAcCoporoy "I30rG agqy

TTF STAIEKS IMG} 1O0F |doosoroy PTOI~aaTs any

Sb

_ (2380) uo
“ke

Paiveata sea edeoporou eT

ePnyTeuoz (#oeTd)

hott ucoy ucTyOu ATTep
Teak Sq} wot om 6 WoC
TT zeeA aug
aeew st yreya sTy4 yO
oSUTOU passeisordG ayy

I9f BAOosoOLoOy STOImPATE aur

--- PAGE 26 of 260 ---

DEDICATED TO THE MEMBERS OF  
WHEELS IN THE SKY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.groups.yahoo.com/group/wheelsinthesky
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“A forum one can learn about Gann and other famous market forecasters”.

--- PAGE 27 of 260 ---

2
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Treasure House of Bayer 
 
 
By 
 
 
George Bayer

--- PAGE 28 of 260 ---

3
A Treasure House of Ephemerides 
 
By George Bayer 
Fund Management Service 
 
The query often arises as to whether there are any ephemerides available before 1850. There are a great 
many events of astrological interest that have taken place where the use of old ephemerides would be of 
the utmost value. A few of these are the “Manhattan Purchase,” “The Foundation of the City of New 
Orleans,” “The Foundation of New York City,” “The Foundation of the New York Stock Exchange,” 
“Declaration of Independence,” “Foundation of the Greenwich Observatory,” “The Royal Decree of 
1694,” which gave legal status to the stock exchanges of Great Britain and its Dominions, not excepting 
the stock exchanges of the United States; and the birth dates of Hamilton, Franklin, Washington and many 
other famous persons of an earlier time. 
 
Various astrologers occasionally produce horoscopes such as the “Manhattan Purchase” or the 
“Foundation of the City of New Orleans.” There exists no possible check for the reader as to the accuracy 
of such horoscopes. The lengthy interpretations might be at fault due to primary errors. 
 
The author of this article happens to have a complete set of ephemerides, beginning with the year 1536 
and practically without a year’s interruption until the present, from one day to the next. The years 1536 to 
1720 are written in Latin, as well all scientific work of that period. They were calculated for the Meridian 
of Bologna, Italy. Those familiar with astrological terms should have no difficulty in understanding these 
tables. 
 
To understand some terms that may appear difficult, let us proceed to examine the table itself. 
 
In this picture, we first note the year for which the ephemerides were prepared, 1623. On the left margin, 
we find the month, Martius, meaning March. Below the month we find: Anni Veteris, pertaining to old 
years, or the Julian Calendar; Anni Gregorianum, meaning the calendar of our present era. 
 
Dies means days. The letter “A” beside March 16th new style, or March 6th old style, indicates Sunday. 
“Motus diurnus Planetarium longitudinis et latitudinis” means “daily motion of the planets in longitude 
and latitude.” 
 
The letters M, A, S, D, just above the planetary signs, refer to the latitude of these planets. M stands for 
“meridionalem,” i.e., southerly; S for septentrionalem,” i.e., northerly. A means ascendentem, moving 
upward, or moving downward respectively. 
 
“Latitudo Planetarum ad diem,” on the lower left margin, means the latitude of that day, i.e. the 1st, 11th 
and 21st of the month, whereby the A and S, respectively, in the Venus and in the Mercury columns, 
means: Venus is ascending toward the equator and Mercury is Meridionalem on March 1st at 0.49 but by 
the 11th it is septentrionalem at 0.42, having crossed the equator. 
 
The right page contains as heading, “syzygiae lunares” – lunar aspects; and at the right margin we have 
“syzygiae mutuae” – mutual aspects. In each instance, the time is given when the aspects occur. It is given 
in astronomical time, from 0 to 24 hours. 
 
When we consider that these ephemerides were produced over 300 years ago, we note the clean-cut 
arrangement, the exactness of the work, the legibility of the print, -- in short, a splendid ephemeris.

--- PAGE 29 of 260 ---

The ephemerides prior to 1600 are all made for the Julian Calendar. It may be noted that England and its 
colonies used the Julian or old style calendar, until the year 1730 legally. 
 
The laying of the Foundation of the Observatory of Greenwich occurred on August 10th, 1675, old style, 
not new style, as so many believe. A copy of the warrant from the King of England granting permission to 
build the Observatory was dated at the Court of Whitehall, June 22, 1675, old style, which granted 
Flamsteed the authority to build it. 
 
Some ephemerides in the course of time figured for Rome, others for Uranienburg, still others for 
Bologna. Only beginning with 1740 do we find ephemerides for Greenwich. 
 
It is easily understood why Uranus, Neptune and Pluto are strangely missing in these ephemerides – they 
were unknown then. They may be figured easily, however, and you should be able to get their positions 
nearly correct, by going back one or two cycles of their revolutions from known positions as the following 
example should demonstrate for March 1st, 1623, new style: 
 
Uranus: Complete revolution is made in 84 years and 6 days. Three cycles from March 1st, 1623, brings 
us to March 19th, 1875. The position given for Uranus on this date must have been the position on March 
1st, 1623, at least very close to it. 
 
Neptune: Complete revolution in 217.387 years. March 1st represents 0.162 of a year. 1623.162 + 217.387 
equals 1840.549 years. This equals July 20th, 1840, for which Neptune tables are available. If not, we may 
say further: one quarter of Neptune’s movement is 54.347 years. Adding this value to July 20th, 1840, we 
get: 1840.549 plus 54.347 equals 1894.896 years. This equals Nov. 24th, 1894. 
 
On that day Neptune was 14.44 Gemini, retrograde. Going back a cycle and a quarter shows Neptune on 
March 1st, 1623, at 14.44 Pisces, or at least very close to it. 
 
We can figure Pluto’s approximate position by using Koppenstaetter’s Pluto Ephemerides, 1840 to 1940. 
We find Pluto’s position on January 14th, 1840 at 16 Aries 56, direct, and we find it on September 16th, 
1927 at 16 Cancer 56, direct. In this interval Pluto covered 90 degrees in the Zodiac. Calculating the time 
Pluto required to cover these 90 degrees we say: 
 
September 16th, 1927, is in decimals…. 
1927.707 years 
 
January 14th, 1840, is in decimals…….. 
1840.036 years 
 
 
Time required to cover 90 degrees……. 
87.671 years 
 
By adding to the March 1st, 1623, date a quarter revolution (90 degrees), we have: 
 
March 1st, 1623 equals…………………… 1623.162 years 
 
plus……………………………………….. 87.671 years 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
……. 1710.833 years 
 
plus………………………………………... 87.671 years 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
…….. 1798.504 years 
 
plus………………………………………… 87.671 years 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
…… 1886.175 years

--- PAGE 30 of 260 ---

5
This value represents March 6th, 1886. On this day we find in the table Pluto at 1 Gemini 9. However, 
March 1st, 1623, is exactly three quarters of a revolution backward from this date and that shows us to be 
Virgo 9. This is very close, to say the least. 
 
Instead of using Greenwich as the point of beginning, we use the Meridian for which these old 
Ephemerides were calculated – Bologna, Uranienburg, Rome, etc. – by allowing the proper degrees and 
minutes for the place for which a horoscope is required, so as to arrive at the required time of planets’ 
positions. 
 
It has been noted that in a recently published horoscope of the “Manhattan Purchase,” the writer figured 
everything correctly as to time. However, when it came to inserting the planets’ positions, he merely 
copied the planetary positions as of noon in the City of Bologna. Further comments as to the value of such 
chart and the interpretations that followed is superfluous. 
 
The other example mentioned was the horoscope of the Foundation of the City of New Orleans in 1718. 
The chart, upon examination showed that Jupiter’s position for that day was incorrect by nearly 7 degrees 
and 15 minutes. 
 
The benefit one can derive by having correct ephemerides is startling. The writer, a counselor on 
investments, connected with Fund Management Service, Salmon Tower, New York City, has through 
necessity, been forced into research on the horoscope of New Orleans so as to be able to correctly 
estimate the movements of cotton prices for clients. 
 
Research on the “Royal Decree” horoscope to secure stock exchange trends for the London and New 
York Stock Exchange has revealed that while this horoscope seems to be the father of all exchanges, the 
sons and daughters respond again to their own natal horoscopes individually. Thus, the New York Stock 
Exchange horoscope of 1792 is more specific as to the movement of the latter. 
 
The truth that is to be found through correct planetary positions, especially in reference to the stock 
market and to the various commodity markets, such as hides, rubber, silk, butter, etc., can be established 
by the closing of two exchanges – the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade for 
wheat. These closings occurred at different periods. The New York Stock Exchange closed on July 28th, 
1914, “on account of the War,” as “they” say. Examination of this day the progressed horoscope of 1792 
showed that on this day the progressed horoscope into an eclipse of the Sun progressed. 
 
In August, 1917, the wheat market closed because “they” say, “prices would have risen too high.” In 
reality, the progressed Moon of the wheat chart reached an eclipse with the progressed Sun. 
 
The eclipses both times closed the markets, at different periods, however. An eclipse means the 
withdrawal of all light and it meant as much for the markets.

--- PAGE 31 of 260 ---

[OCR] The Universit, Ageless Language of Syriboele sec in Astrology, Mother of Sciences

hear

Bharciet Ving

- oN
A ereat ety 1

them je.
palais) festa] eekly

e 3 FS SPipgTe Tiree
TaTLAE .

sha |
res ne i] 1? dd

e

odd

+) ia

--- PAGE 32 of 260 ---

7
The Centiloquy 
One Hundred Aphorisms or Truths of Claudius Ptolemy 
 
 
WESTERN ASTROLOGY (that is, the art as we know it) owes much to the thoughtful observation, 
careful tabulations and logical reasoning of Claudius Ptolemy, the Greek-Egyptian astronomer and 
geographer of the Second Century, A. D. In the "Centiloquy, or One Hundred Aphorisms," is set down a 
series of definitions and rules for the interpretation of the horoscope. These are drawn from the 
Tetrabiblos, or Four Books of Ptolemy. 
 
Modern astrological literature makes frequent reference to these "Hundred Truths," thereby stimulating 
the student's curiosity concerning this ancient source book. But often this curiosity' must remain 
unsatisfied because the student does not have access to a copy of the complete work. 
 
For this reason, Magazine feels that it is performing a distinct service to all readers and students by 
placing in their possession these Aphorisms from Ahmand's English translation. 
 
We urge you to save this printing of the Centiloquy, or Hundred Truths of Astrology, and to apply them in 
reading the horoscopes and charts with which you are experimenting. They are not difficult to learn, in the 
main, and you will be well repaid for the use you make of them. 
 
The Hundred Aphorisms 
 
1. Judgment must be regulated by yourself as well as by the science, for it is not possible that particular 
forms of events should be declared by any person, however scientific, since the understanding conceives 
only a general idea of some sensible event, and not its particular form. It is, therefore, necessary for him 
who practices herein to adopt inference. Those only who are inspired by the Deity can predict particulars. 
 
2. When an inquirer shall make mature search into an expected event, there will be found no material 
difference between the event and his idea of it. 
 
3. Whosoever may be adapted to any particular event or pursuit will assuredly have the star indicative 
thereof may potent in his nativity. 
 
4. A mind apt in knowledge will discover truth more readily than one practiced in the highest branches of 
science. 
 
5. A skilful person, acquainted with the nature of the stars, is enabled to avert many of their effects, and to 
prepare himself for those effects before they arrive. 
 
6. It is advantageous to make choice of days and hours (for particular purposes) at a time well constituted 
by the nativity. Should the time be averse, the choice will in no respect avail, however favorable an issue 
it may chance to promise. 
 
7. The mingled influence of the stars can be understood by no one who has not previously acquired 
knowledge of the combinations and varieties existing in nature. 
 
8. A sagacious mind improves the operation of the heavens, as a skilful farmer by cultivation improves 
nature.

--- PAGE 33 of 260 ---

8
9. In their generation and corruption forms are influenced by the celestial forms, of which the farmers of 
talismans consequently avail themselves, by observing the ingress of the stars thereupon. 
 
10. In the choice of days and hours (for any particular purpose), make use of the malefics to the same 
moderate extent as the skilful physician would use poisons in order to perform cures. 
 
11. A day and hour are not to be chosen until the quality of the intended purpose be made known. 
 
12. Love and hatred prohibit the true accomplishment of judgments; and, inasmuch as 
they lessen the most important, so likewise they magnify the most trivial things. 
 
13. In every indication made by the constitution of the heavens, secondary stars, whether auxiliary or 
injurious thereto, are also to be used. 
 
14. The astrologer will be entangled in a labyrinth of error, when the seventh house and its lord be 
afflicted. 
 
15. Signs cadent from the ascendant of any kingdom are the ascendant’s of that kingdom's enemies, but 
the angles and succeedent houses are the ascendants of its friends. It is the same in all doctrines and 
institutions. 
 
16.When the benefics may be controlled in the eighth house they bring mischief by means of good men; 
ii, on the other hand, they be well affected, they will prevent mischief. 
 
17. Give no judgment as to the future of an aged person until the number of years he may live have been 
reckoned. 
 
18. If, while a benefic may ascend, both the luminaries should be in the same minute (of the same degree 
and sign), the native will be equally and highly prosperous in all things which can befall him. So likewise, 
if the luminaries (Sun and Moon) be mutually opposed by the East and the West. But the contrary effect 
will be produced should a malefic be on the ascendant. 
 
19. The efficacy of purgation is impeded by the Moon's conjunction with Jupiter. 
 
20. Pierce not with iron that part of the body which may be governed by the sign actually occupied by the 
moon. 
 
21. When the Moon may be in Scorpio or Pisces, purgatives may be advantageously used, provided the 
lord of the ascendant is coupled with some star posited below the earth. If he be coupled with a star placed 
above the earth, the potion swallowed will be vomited up.  
 
22. Neither put on nor lay aside any garment for the first time when the Moon is located in Leo. And it 
will be still worse to do so, should the Moon be badly afflicted.  
 
23. Aspects between the Moon and stars give the native much activity; and, if the stars be in power, they 
indicate an, efficient, but if weak, an inert excitation to action.  
 
24. An eclipse of the Sun or Moon, if in the angles of the nativity, or if in an annual revolution, is 
noxious; and the effects take place according to the space between the ascendant and the place of eclipse.

--- PAGE 34 of 260 ---

9
And, as in a solar eclipse a year is reckoned for an hour, so likewise in a lunar eclipse a month is reckoned 
for an hour. 
  
25. The progression of a significator, posited in the mid-heaven, is to be made by right ascension of 
another posited in the ascendant by the oblique ascension of the particular altitude.  
 
26. There is obvious concealment in the case, if the star significant of any particular affair be in 
conjunction with the Sun, either under the earth or in a place foreign to its own nature. On the other hand, 
there is manifestation should the star be raised to elevation out of its depression, and be located in its own 
place. 
  
27. Venus gives pleasure to the native in that part of the body which may be ruled by the sign she 
occupies. It is the same with the other stars.  
 
28. When the Moon may not hold a familiarity (be in aspect) with two planets, as is desirable, care should 
be taken to connect her with some fixed star combining their qualities. 
 
29. The fixed stars grant extremely good fortune, unconnected with the understanding; but it is most 
commonly marked by calamities, unless the planets also agree in the felicity. 
  
30. Observe the creation of the first in any dynasty, for if the ascendant at that creation should agree with 
the nativity of the king’s son, he will succeed his father. (Note: This applies to founding a business, 
determining whether it shall remain "in the family" or not after the founder's passing.) 
  
31. When the star ruling over any kingdom (or organization of any kind) shall enter into a clamatorial 
place, either the king or some of the chief men of his kingdom, shall die. 
  
32. Concord between two persons is produced by harmonious figuration of the stars, indicative of the 
matter whereby good-will is constituted in the nativity of either person.  
 
33. Love and hatred are discernible, as well from the concord and discord of the luminaries as from the 
ascendants of both nativities; but obeying signs increases good-will.  
 
34. If the lord of the New Moon be in an angle, he is indicative of the events liable to happen in that 
month. 
  
35. When the Sun arrives at the place of any star he excites the influence of that star in the atmosphere. 
  
36. In the foundation of cities consider the fixed stars which may seem to contribute thereto; but in the 
construction of buildings (houses), observe the planets. The rulers of every city which has Mars in 
culmination will most commonly perish by the sword (or in frequent conflicts).  
 
37. If Virgo or Pisces be on the ascendant the native will create his own dignity; but, if Aries or Libra be 
there, he will cause his own death. (This does not necessarily imply suicide, but rather that the native's 
mode of life may be the fatal factor.) The other signs are to be contemplated in the same way. 
  
38. Mercury, if established in either of Saturn's houses (Capricorn or Aquarius), and in power, gives the 
native a speculative and inquisitive intellect; if in a house of Mars (and especially if in Aries), he gives 
eloquence.

--- PAGE 35 of 260 ---

10
39. Affliction of the eleventh house, in the creation of a king (or public dignitary), indicates damage in his 
household and treasury; affliction of the second house denotes the detriment of his subjects' wealth (that 
is, he will oppress them with taxes and levies of tribute).  
 
40. When the ascendant is oppressed by the malefics, the native will delight in sordid things and approve 
ill-favored odors. 
  
41. Beware the affliction of the eighth house and its lord at a time of departure, and that of the second 
house and its lord at a time of return. 
  
42. Should a disease begin when the Moon may be in a sign occupied at birth by some malefic, or in some 
quartile (square) or opposition to any such sign, such disease will be most severe, and if the malefic also 
behold the said sign it will be dangerous; on the other hand, there will be no danger if the Moon be in a 
place held at the time of birth of some benefic.  
 
43. The malefic figures of a nation are strengthened by adverse figurations of existing times.  
 
44. It is an evil case if the ascendant of a sick person resist the figuration or his own nativity, and if the 
time should not bring up any benefic. 
  
45. If the ascendant, or principal significators, be not in human signs, the native himself will also be 
estranged from human nature.  
 
46. In nativities, much happiness is conferred by the fixed stars, and also by the angles of the New Moon, 
and by the places of a kingdom's Part of Fortune, should the ascendant be found in any of them.  
 
47. If a malefic in one nativity fall in the place of a benefic in another nativity, he who has the benefic will 
suffer from him who has the malefic.  
 
48. If the midheaven of a prince be the ascendant of his subject, or if their respective significators be 
configurated in a benevolent form, they will continue long inseparable. It will be the same also should the 
sixth house of a servant or subject be the ascendant of his prince or master. 
  
49. If the ascendant of a servant be the midheaven in his master's nativity, the master will place so much 
confidence in that servant as to be ruled by him. 
  
50. Overlook none of the 119 conjunctions, for on them depends the knowledge of worldly operations, 
whether of generation or of corruption.  
 
51. Make the sign occupied by the Moon at the time of birth the sign ascending at the conception; and 
consider that in which she may be posited at the conception, or the opposite one, as the sign ascending at 
birth.  
 
52. Men of tall stature have their lords of nativity in elevation, and the ascendants in the beginning of 
signs; but the lords of men of short stature will be found in declination, or in obscure situations. It must 
also be seen whether the signs be right or oblique. 
  
53. The lords of nativity of slight or thin men have no latitude, but stout or fat men have; and if the 
latitude be south, the native will be active; if north, inactive.

--- PAGE 36 of 260 ---

11
54. In the construction of a building the principal rulers, if coupled with a star below the earth, will 
impede the erection. 
 
55. Mars' evil influence over ships is diminished if he be neither in the midheaven nor in the eleventh 
house; but if in either of these laces he renders the ship liable to be captured by pirates; and if the 
ascendant be afflicted by any fixed star of the nature of Mars, the ship will be burned. 
 
56. While the Moon is in her first quarter, withdrawing from her conjunction with the Sun, the bodily 
humours expand until her second quarter; in her other quarters they decrease. 
 
57. If during a sickness the seventh house and its lord be afflicted, change the physician. 
 
58. Observe the place of an aspect, and its distance from the ascendant of the year; for the event will 
happen when the profection may arrive thither.  
 
59. Before pronouncing that an absent person shall die, observe whether he may not become intoxicated; 
before declaring that he shall receive a wound, see whether he may not be let blood; before saying that he 
shall find treasure, examine whether he map not receive his own deposit; for the figures of all these things 
may be similar. 
  
60. In cases of sickness, observe the Moon's progress in the angles of a figure of sixteen sides. If those 
angles be affected, it is favorable for the invalid; if they be afflicted, un- favorable. 
  
61. The Moon is significative of bodily matters, which, ill respect of motion, resemble her. 
 
62. By marking exactly the beginning of a conjunction, (of the Sun and Moon), judgment may be made of 
the variation of the weather in the ensuing month. It will depend upon the lord of the angle of every 
figure, for he controls the nature of the atmosphere; assuming also at these times the quality of the 
existing weather. 
 
63. In the conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter, pronounce according to the nature of that one which may be 
higher In elevation. Follow the same rule with other stars. 
  
64. After ascertaining the lord of the enquiry, see what power he may have in the annual revolution, or in 
the ascendant of the new Moon, and pronounce accordingly. 
  
65. In the least conjunction, the difference of the mean conjunction, and in the mean conjunction, the 
difference of the greatest conjunction. (This aphorism has always puzzled the translators, who were 
unable to determine its meaning. -Ed.) 
 
66. Consider no profection by itself alone, but make reference to the qualifications and impediments of 
the stars.  
 
67. Years are diminished by the imbecility of the receiver.  
 
68. A malefic, when matutine, signifies an accident; when vespertine, a disease.  
 
69. The native's sight will be impaired if the Moon be opposed to the Sun and joined with nebulous stars; 
and if the moon be in the western angle, and both the malefic stars in the eastern angle, the Sun being in 
an angle also, the native will become blind.

--- PAGE 37 of 260 ---

12
70. Insanity is produced if the Moon have no connection with Mercury; and, if neither of them be 
connected with the ascendant, Saturn being in occupation of that angle by night, but Mars by day, 
especially if in Cancer, Virgo, or Pisces, a demoniac affection will be produced. 
 
71. If both luminaries be in masculine signs, in the nativities of males, their actions will be consonant, 
with nature: but if so placed in the nativities of females, they increase their action. And Mars and Venus, 
if matutine, incline to the masculine gender; if vespertine, to the feminine. 
 
72. Matters of education are to be considered by the ascending lords of triplicity; matters of life by the 
lords of the conditionary luminaries triplicity. 
 
73. If the Sun be found with the Gorgon's Head (Caput Medusae), and not aspected by any benefic star, 
and if there be no benefic present in the eighth house, and the lord of the conditionary luminary be 
opposed to Mars, or in square to him, the native will be beheaded. If the luminary culminate, his body will 
be maimed or mangled; and if the aspect in square be from Gemini or Pisces, his hands and feet will be 
amputated. 
 
74. Mars, if ascending, uniformly gives a scar in the face. 
 
75. If the Sun be in conjunction with the lord of the ascendant in Leo, and Mars have no prerogative, and 
if there be no benefic in the eighth house, the native will be burned. 
 
76. If Saturn hold the midheaven, and the conditionary luminary be opposed to him, the native will perish 
in the ruins of buildings, provided the sign on the lower meridian be an earthy sign; if it be a watery sign, 
he will be strangled by men, or will perish by the halter or the scourge. Should there, however, be a 
benefic in the eighth house, he will not suffer death, although he will be brought near it. 
 
77. Profection of the ascendant is to be made for matters affecting the body; of the Part of Fortune, for 
intrinsic circumstances; of the Moon, for the connection between the body and the spirit; and of the 
midheaven, for the employment or profession. 
 
78. A star often dispenses influence in a place where it has no prerogative, thus bringing unexpected 
advantages to the native. 
 
79. Whoever has Mars in his eleventh house, does not govern his master. 
 
80. If Venus be in conjunction with Saturn, and have any lord of house in the seventh house, the native 
will be of spurious origin. 
 
81. Times are reckoned in seven ways, viz.: by the space between two significators; by the space between 
their mutual aspects; by the approach of one to the other; by the space between either of them, and the 
place appropriated to the proposed event; by the descension of a star, with its addition or diminution; by 
the changing of a significator; and by the approach of a planet to its place. 
 
82. When a figure may be equipoised, observe the horoscope (or figure), at the new or full moon: and, if 
that also be equipoised, be not hasty in giving judgment. 
 
83. The time of obtaining a grant indicates the affection between the applicant and his prince; but the seat 
(or part of heaven), shows the nature of the office.

--- PAGE 38 of 260 ---

13
84. And if Mars be lord of the ascendant at the time of entering on possession and posited in the second 
house, or coupled with the lord of the second he brings much mischief. 
 
85. Should the lord of the ascendant be configurated with the lord of the second house, the prince will 
spontaneously create many changes. 
 
86. The Sun is the source of the vital power; the Moon of the natural power. 
 
87. Monthly revolutions are made in 28 days, 2 hours, and about 18 minutes. Judgment is also made by 
some persons by means of the Sun's progress; that is to say, by his partile equations to that degree and 
minute which he might hold at the beginning. 
 
88. In making profection of the Part of Fortune for whole annual revolution, a space equal to that between 
the Sun and Moon is to be reckoned from the ascendant. 
 
89. Consider the grandfather's affairs from the seventh house, and the uncle's from the sixth. 
 
90. Should the significator be in aspect to the ascendant, the hidden event or object will correspond in its 
nature with the ascendant; but if the ascendant be not so aspected, the nature of the event will accord with 
that of the place in which the significator is posited. The lord of the hour shows its color, the place of the 
Moon its time; and if above the earth, it will be a novel thing; if below, old. The Part of Fortune indicates 
its quantity, whether long or short. The lords of the terms, and of the lower heaven and midheaven, and of 
the Moon, show its substance or value. 
 
91. Should the ruler of a sick person be combust, it is an evil portent; and especially if the Part of Fortune 
be afflicted. 
 
92. Saturn, if oriental, is not so highly noxious to a sick person; nor Mars, if occidental. 
 
93. Judgment is not to be drawn from any figure until the next conjunction shall have been considered, for 
principles are varied by every conjunction; and therefore, to avoid error both the last and the next should 
be combined. 
 
94. The place of the more potent significator indicates the thoughts of he enquirer. 
 
95. The stars rising with the tenth house prove how far the native may be fitted to the occupation which he 
follows. 
 
96. In an eclipse, such significations as are made nearest the angles show the events decreed. The nature 
of the stars in accordance with the eclipse, planets as well as fixed stars, and also the appearances co-
ascending are likewise to be considered, and judgment is to be given accordingly. 
 
97. The event enquired about will be speedily accomplished should the lord of the new or full Moon be in 
an angle. 
 
98. Shooting stars, and meteors flowing like hair, bear a secondary part in judgments. 
 
99. Shooting stars denote the dryness of the air; and if they are projected to one part only, they indicate 
wind there from; if to various parts, they indicate diminution of waters; a turbulent atmosphere, and 
incursions of armies.

--- PAGE 39 of 260 ---

100. If comets, whose distance is eleven signs behind the Sun, appear in angles, the king of some 
kingdom (or one of the princes or chief men of a kingdom) will die. If in a succedent house, the affairs of 
the kingdom's treasury will prosper, but the governor or ruler will be changed. If in a cadent house, there 
will be diseases and sudden deaths; and if comets be in motion from the west towards the east, a foreign 
foe will invade the country; if not in motion, the foe will be provincial, or domestic. 
 
 
 
14

--- PAGE 40 of 260 ---

Least, Mean and Great Conjunctions 
New Light on a Mystery of Ptolemy's Centiloquy  
By GEORGE BAYER 
 
Fund Management Service 
 
TRANSLATORS of the Centiloquy according to the note of the Editor, admit being puzzled by the 
meaning of Ptolemy's 65th verse, wherein he discusses a least, a mean and a greater conjunction. It is 
understood that text books never explain what this means. Astrology, as I understand it, includes a 
complete knowledge of astronomy or at least as much as that of the average astronomer who studies 
planetary phenomena in an observatory and calculates movements thereby. An astrologer also must figure 
the movements of the stars and in addition, interpret their influences upon human beings.  
 
To explain this statement, let us start with the fact that when two planets move forward at various speeds, 
there must come a time when they meet. This meeting is called a conjunction. With slow moving planets, 
such conjunctions take long time in forming. Let us suppose there is a conjunction between Saturn and 
Uranus. They meet. This is the first conjunction. A little later, the faster one changes its course from a 
forward movement into a retrograde motion. Thus it meets the other planet on its return. This is the 
second conjunction. Later on, it ceases going backwards, turns around and moves forward again. In doing 
so, it will overtake the other planet a second time. This is called the third conjunction.  
 
The first one is called the "least" conjunction, the second one is the "mean" conjunction, and the third one 
is the "great" conjunction. 
 
 
 
Such conjunctions may be illustrated to show their importance by watching the meeting between two 
friends. When the meeting takes place, they shake hands. This is the first conjunction. During the 
conversation, one pats the other on the shoulder. This is the second or mean conjunction. When they part, 
they shake hands again, but carry along the thoughts exchanged during this meeting. This, the third or 
great conjunction, is the one of most importance. This is the one used to calculate specific events in stock 
market movements as well as in natal analysis. But, if one does not know these facts, how can important, 
work be done without it? 
 
 
 
15
As an illustration, I present for your consideration the three conjunctions of Saturn and Uranus that 
occurred in 1897. The first or least conjunction occurred on January 6, 1897; the second or mean

--- PAGE 41 of 260 ---

conjunction, June 1, 1897; the last, the great conjunction, September 9, 1897. The positions, the time of 
meeting, the daily speed and the hourly speed are presented in table form below. 
 
 
 
At the three moments of conjunction the position of the Sun was: 
 
Jan. 6-Capricorn 
 
16°34' 37" 22-t* 
June 1-Gemini  
 
11° 7' 8" 15-t 
Sept. 9-Virgo   
 
16° 56' 12" 51-t  
 
* t means tertia, i.e. 1/60 of a second  
In the course of many years of astrological research, the writer also has often arrived at an impasse; 
something arose for which there was absolutely no explanation within the realms of his accumulated 
knowledge. 
 
BOOKS on all sorts of subjects were consulted with the hope that some light might be thrown on this 
question which would enable further progress to be made. Some of these questions remained unanswered 
as long as six months, sometimes even a year. But, by constantly searching for the specific explanation, it 
was finally found in some form or other in some stray nook. 
 
It becomes easily understood that the perusal of some fifty or sixty Latin texts, from cover to cover, 
continued through study of the various writers of the past two hundred years in their original tongues, will 
result in accumulating practically all that is of importance, by extracting from each what is of value, 
bearing in mind that you must be the judge of what is and what is not of value, to enable you to 
determine: 
 
1-Future weather conditions. 
2-Mundane events that are due to occur. 
3-The causes of future diseases: 
    (a) generally, such as epidemics. 
    (b) individually for persons, animals, etc. 
4-Future values of crops. 
5-Forecasts for individuals.  
6-Future prices of stocks and bonds, on commodities, real estate. 
 
The writer has constantly at his disposal some eight hundred various books on astrology. They all contain 
the genera1 knowledge of astrology up to the time the individual book was written plus (and this part only 
is of value) the improved findings of the specific writer on the effects of planets in their positions and in 
 
16

--- PAGE 42 of 260 ---

17
their courses through the heavens. Each writer has a pinch of additional knowledge with which to improve 
the entire previously known "case history." Taken together, all these amount to something of value.  
 
A definite example showing what research can accomplish as actually experienced by the writer a good 
many years ago is the following: 
 
ONE day, while comparing an Ephemeris of Raphael with the same Ephemeris of the Nautical Almanac, 
variations as to the positions of the planets’ places were found for each specific day. What was the 
reason? Was it possible that one could be wrong? After two months of study, it was found that both were 
right. A case of incomplete knowledge.  
 
In one of the following issues the author will show how the astrological Ephemerides are produced by 
technicians like Raphael, from the actual Nautical Almanacs that are always issued two years in advance, 
allowing ample time for their production.

--- PAGE 43 of 260 ---

18
The Five-fold Horoscope 
A New Approach to Stock Market and Individual Forecasts 
(FUND MANAGEMENT SERVICE) 
 
 
THE obvious purpose of studying Astrology is to enable one to forecast the course of his life and that of 
others as accurately as possible. The sub-factors that are generally attempted for discovery are: 
 
1-How to guard health against evil planetary aspects. 
 
2-How to improve financial status by using good aspects to push affairs and avoid reverses during bad 
aspects. 
 
3-How to distinguish profitable and unprofitable associations with men or with undertakings, i.e., those 
that should be furthered, against those that spell trouble and losses from the very start, both physically and 
mentally. 
 
4-How to recognize all other important matters that can be drawn from a natal horoscope through the 
analysis of the houses, of the signs, and of the planets in their actual positions at birth, in their progressed 
positions, and the angles that are cast between these planets as time proceeds. 
 
There is another type of Astrology, called Mundane Astrology—that mentioned above is called Natal 
Astrology—that attempts to calculate events through planetary motions that should occur in the world at 
large. Within this category, we may include political events, movements of stock and commodity prices, 
and natural events, such as earthquakes, weather conditions, wind conditions, pests, great fires, etc. 
 
These do not really concern us directly, but, as we are cogs in the wheel, we are in a way dependent upon 
them, i.e., we benefit or suffer through these “Mundane" influences and events. 
 
Tons of literature have been written on Natal Astrology and on Mundane Astrology. Events of a Mundane 
nature are usually calculated on Solar Ingress Charts or New Moon Charts. The approach to Natal 
Astrology is usually made by erecting a birth chart or horoscope for the moment of birth of the individual. 
However, the birth moment is doubtful in ninety-nine out of hundred cases and is practically unknown, 
except as to the day of the event, in half of the cases. It is understood that there exist several methods of 
rectifying a horoscope. They are not as easy to use as they appear on the surface. Even should such 
corrections be plotted according to specific methods, it happens that, due to other conditions, the specific 
method used for correction does not apply or, in other words, cannot be applied in that case. The result is 
that the horoscope is wrong and the interpretations following must necessarily be wrong also. 
 
SOME of the methods commonly employed to adjust a horoscope or to find an exact birth moment are: 
 
1-Through pre-natal epoch. The trouble with this method is that no one knows this pre-natal epoch in 
hours, minutes and seconds, though possibly the day might be known by one of the parents. 
 
2-Through timing events and retroacting them for adjustment of the birth moment. In speaking of the 
value of this method, I may state at once that with a simple radix and progressed horoscope this cannot be 
done. 
 
The reason for this is that in a birth chart, the positions of the planets have at the very same moment echo-
positions, so-called reflex positions (mirrored positions), which respond exactly as if actually a planet was

--- PAGE 44 of 260 ---

19
located at that spot, Any planet, in its progressed movement, striking such a; spot by some angle will 
cause an event to occur that is of the nature of the actual planet whose reflex or mirror causes that specific 
spot to irritated. 
 
Instead of thirteen positions in the radical birth chart we find the number increased threefold and we have 
thirty-nine additional spots that are fixed positions of planets at birth.  
 
This fact explains why every Astrologer at times is at a loss to explain certain events. No matter how he 
tries to use orthodox rules, or how he juggles the figure so as to get certain events under some known 
aspect, he fails. Recourse is taken to transits, to new Moon charts, Ingress charts, to every imaginable tool 
shown in text books, but to no avail. There seems to be no explanation—just the event which at times is as 
serious as a square Sun to Uranus or a trine Sun to Jupiter. 
 
3-Through the mother's birthday, by saying that in whatever sign the Moon is found on mother’s birthday, 
that sign must be on the cusp of the fifth house of the native, i.e.. of the child. -This may be so or it may 
not be so, as various tests have shown. Some even go as far as to say that the degree of the Moon's 
position (in case the mother knows her time of birth) of the mother must be the degree of the cusp of the 
fifth house in the child's horoscope. It is, of course, possible that something of value is hidden therein, 
especially when we consider that the cusp of the fifth house is in trine to the cusp of the Ascendant, a very 
favorable aspect. However, if one tries to erect horoscopes of "unwanted” children, or of children that 
hate their mother, both being extreme cases, there is surely no trine of the mother's Moon to the child's 
Ascendant, we cannot approach such subjects superficially. We must take into consideration the normal 
cases and the abnormal cases, if we wish to formulate a law that is valid in all cases. 
 
The writer has approached the subject of Astrology in a way that seems absurd on the surface to most 
people. Stock price movements were taken as being simply pulsations of the stock's life (or that of the 
stock market as a whole). In other words, the stock or the stock market as a whole was considered as a 
human being. The idea was derived from the fact that everything under the Sun is subject to planetary 
influences. 
 
EACH stock changes from sale to sale, in price and volume, be it even zero or an odd lot. The price range 
(the high and low price at which an individual stock sells during one single day) shows the vibration for 
that single day. Such vibrations must be plotted on special sheets from one day to the next. You will then 
be able to see that a move in a certain direction spreads over several days. These moves may be upward, 
downward, or sidewise. After the trend reverses, the price lines move in the opposite direction. This 
continues as long as the stock is traded on the Exchange. It may be noted in addition that these minor 
swings are again incorporated in longer swings that last from three to six months, called major 
movements. Should you possess a chart covering a period of six or eight years, you will be enabled to see 
that there are still larger movements, i.e., bull and bear markets, in which these major swings are included. 
Each is a cycle within a greater cycle a movement encompassed by a greater movement. 
 
Comparing such swings with events in the lives of human beings, a definite relationship is found; human 
beings have their ups and downs similar to stock. However, the human swings are not registered carefully 
as those of-stock prices, with the result that the intermediate swings are not recognized. On the other 
hand, human events may be expressed with every possible psychological emotion, such as happy, 
grouchy, delighted; with pathological determinations, sick, well, in pain, feverish; with financial 
conditions, rich, poor, losing, plentiful supply of money, etc. 
 
Stocks, however, express themselves only in one way and that fact is what makes stock analysis simpler 
than analyzing human events. Stocks either feel good and move upward, or they feel bad and move

--- PAGE 45 of 260 ---

downward. In one case, people want stocks, in the other, people do not want stocks. This can only be 
expressed in the price of a stock. The price being a number, we have to relate numbers with the 
astrological angles which cause the movements.  
 
An intensive study of this particular phenomenon was made by the writer and the findings accumulated in 
a book, called "The Time Element in the Stock Market," covering some 250 pages and containing timely 
methods to figure stock movements. This volume should prove of inestimable value to the trader because 
it provides safeguards for investments in almost any situation and is written in non-technical language 
easily understood by any layman. 
 
It is a question of what sort of an angle is formed, irrespective of the planets involved. When the angle is 
good, the stock will move upward; when it is bad, it will move lower. This is generally known as the law 
of supply and demand, an expression that is too vague for use. 
 
AFTER this preliminary discussion, let us inspect the chart of International Harvester (HR), covering the 
period of June, 1933, to December, 1933. We note a main direction upward until July 17, that evidently 
must have been caused by a good angle of some planet. A break occurred, extending from July 17 to .July 
21. This must have been caused by a very strong unfavorable aspect. A rally occurred from July 21 until 
September 19 This must have been because of a good aspect. A decline followed from September 19 to 
October 20. This again must have been caused by a bad aspect. A rise followed from October 20 to 
November 21. We must have had a good aspect for this period. A decline followed from then on until 
December 20, 1933, which must have been caused by a bad aspect. 
 
However, we find, that there were numerous sizable moves, upward as well as downward, between the 
moves above mentioned. They, too, were brought about by good and bad aspects. The reason that some of 
these moves were greater than others must be sought in the type of aspect, such as a conjunction, a sextile, 
or a trine, against a semi-square, a square, or a sesquare on the one hand, and in the type of planet 
involved on the other hand. The question of where the planets causing the change of trend are located, i.e., 
in what sign or in which house, is not important because they would indicate volume, not price. 
 
 
 
 
20

--- PAGE 46 of 260 ---

21
Any astrologer who merely uses the radix and the progressed horoscope will not be able to find more than 
five or six of these charts, taking for granted that he has the correct horoscope of that stock or of the 
market as a whole. How can he account for all the other movements? His radix and progressed aspects 
may show him, for example, the small top of July 27, 1933, in our chart. Then as a bottom, he may get the 
one made on July 12, 1933. Then he may have no aspect thereafter, until possibly August 10, which 
would show him a top and again a bottom indicated for September 6, etc. 
 
He is correct as far as finding a change of trend is concerned: he may even judge the direction of the 
aspect correctly (which by no means is as easy as some people think). But, even with all that knowledge, 
he will lose heavily in the market when trading, as even a superficial check will show. It must be 
understood that the radix and progressed horoscope may produce minor movements or major movements. 
The astrologer has no means by which to measure them. 
 
It is a fact that something must have caused the big decline from July 17 to July 21, 1933. It may be 
stated, at this stage, that this specific change was caused by the progressed Moon getting into a square 
aspect to the mundane position of Mars in the stock market horoscope, which affected all stocks without 
exception. Thus you see that individual stock horoscopes are again subject to the bigger and more 
important general stock market horoscope. This mundane position is actually a reflex of the radical 
positions of Mars in the ! horoscope. With a five-fold horoscope, whereby reflexed positions are found, 
you would have been able to discover in advance that the stock market had to crack wide open beginning 
with July 17, 1933, just as the writer had predicted the previous March, at a time when the upmove had 
not started. And again, you would have found that between the 21st and 22nd of July, 1933, the 
progressed Moon arrived at a sextile to the radix reflexed position of Jupiter, which called for change in 
the upward direction. These reflex positions, of which there are thirty-nine placed all over the Zodiac and 
the aspects cast thereto, plus the aspects to the radix and progressed positions, give the movement of 
stocks and their direction, and the events in human lives when used in personal horoscopes. 
 
It is not denied that transits have a definite bearing upon movements. But these transits often coincide 
with the above reflexed aspects, simply being another approach to interpreting planetary effects. It is a 
case of using present ephemeral positions to explain events due to a native who was born at quite a 
different time, while the employment of reflex positions results in obtaining each and -every event 
directly from the birth horoscope, by using only those planets and interpreting their effects upon the life of 
such native. 
 
HAVING grasped the idea as applicable to stock movements it was not difficult to apply these laws to 
mankind. It is astounding how accurately predictions of events for individuals can be forecast, as well as 
their nature and their intensity. As an example, the writer had a radix reflexed aspect in his own horoscope 
for December 21, 1934, which was favorable and should have brought a large sum of money, 
automatically. The day passed and nothing happened. At seven o'clock that evening a member of the 
family remarked on the fact that the aspect evidently had passed without result. However, around eight 
o'clock, there was a telephone call, an appointment was made with someone that very evening, with the 
result that a sizable sum was handed over to him by that person. 
 
The aspect took effect on that day, as was analyzed. Whether it was due; in the morning, at noon or at 
night, was secondary. That is the reason why tops and bottoms in stock movements can only be figured 
accurately within one day, in as much as the market is only open from 10 to 3 P.M. Should the aspect 
arrive after the close of the market, it will show in the price structure the following day (see chart of 
HR between August 24 and 25, September 20 to 2l, etc.) by forming what is called a "gap" over night.

--- PAGE 47 of 260 ---

22
The reason why these aspects can be figured so correctly in regard to stocks is that the exact moment of 
the beginning of a stock, and of the stock market, as a whole is definitely known. However, in Natal 
Astrology, the five-fold horoscope affords the only medium of correcting the unknown birth moment 
when no other method will do the work. 
 
Such research requires a great deal of time, due to the fact that possibly five, six or even more five-fold 
horoscopes must be erected each one consuming some five hours of proportioning; but, when it is once 
corrected, one's life can be accurately analyzed just as in the case of stocks. 
 
In a neutral analysis of this method, made by two students in respect to stock market movements and 
using only angles, without considering the type of planet aspected, or the sign or the house in which the 
Moon or the aspected planet is located, it was found that between the years 1897 and 1914, the five-fold 
horoscope produced 690 different aspects. Of these, 510 aspects caused changes in the market according 
to the usual interpretation of aspects. Good aspects brought upward moves, bad aspects brought declines 
One hundred and forty aspects of the 690 operated in the opposite direction, against the rules of general 
angle interpretation, and the remaining 40 aspects failed, that is, no change occurred in the market when, 
according to the aspects, a change should have taken place. 
 
The 140 aspects, or at least more than half of them, that operated contrary to normal analysis, were bound 
to operate that way because the aspected planet was in some dignity or detriment at that specific time, 
whereby the aspected planet was either weaker or stronger than the planet that did the aspecting, i.e., the 
Moon. 
 
Those that failed were mostly conjunction!! Those that invariably operated were sextiles!! 
 
It is not the purpose of this article to show the various ways in which stock movements may be figured. 
But we have enough proof that the incorporation date of a company should not be used alone to calculate 
its stock movements. 
 
Let us consider stock performance in the big movements, then in the medium-sized movements, and 
finally in the small movements. Looking closely at our picture of International Harvester, HR, we call 
distinguish (1) straight declines and (2) declines that are slow and that have the form of a hook when 
plotted. The former are termed "slides," the latter "hooks." After a slide, a hook follows. Generally, the 
hook meets the line of continuation of the previous slide, but not at all times. When it does not meet this 
continuation line, the stock is much stronger for the immediate trend. When it does meet, the stock is 
much stronger for the long pull, having completed one movement. The former calls for another relapse, at 
least for a sidewise movement, while the latter calls for a slow but steady rise. Two examples of a slide 
and hook are shown in: our picture: July 17 to 21 was a slide, July 21 to July 31 was an incomplete hook, 
calling for a sidewise movement. September 19 to October 3 was a slide, October 3 to October 20 a 
magnificent hook, exactly completed. These same slides and hooks are produced over longer periods as 
well as in hourly periods. 
 
ASTROLOGICALLY, there must be specific constellations that produce a slide and again specific 
constellations that produce a hook. These specific constellations producing major slides (embracing 
smaller slides and hooks) are caused by the movements of major planets and those producing smaller 
slides and hooks, by fast moving planets, while daily and hourly slides and hooks must be produced by 
the Moon’s motion. 
 
Just as the slide and the hook are produced in a downward move, so it is of course produced in an upward 
move. It is a case of good and bad aspects. However, it is much more clearly visible in down moves than

--- PAGE 48 of 260 ---

23
in up moves. Since all stocks move down in a decline, and in a strong upmove all stocks participate, be 
they born in July, September or February, it cannot very well be the birth of a stock that could be the point 
of beginning, at least hot the immediate point. 
 
This idea may be compared to general depression as it exists in nation. During such a period, all suffer, 
rich and pour, persons with very good horoscopes and those with poor ones. It is the depression that is 
paramount, and which strikes all.

--- PAGE 49 of 260 ---

September Stocks and Wheat 
Sound Advice for the Investor Covering General 
Market Movements 
By George Bayer 
 
 
In presenting this first article in a series by George Bayer, feels that it is offering a service of 
real value to the stock and wheat devotee. Mr. Bayer’s methods embody the practical results 
of many years of concentrated research and testing, and his charts (which the Editor has 
examined with care) show a high degree of accuracy. The author’s conclusion and advice are
based on sound reasoning in the field of Advanced Astrology and will merit your earnest 
consideration. Those of our readers who are especially interested in the market movements 
are invited to write directly to Mr. Bayer, at 3216 Crescent Street, Long Island City, New 
York. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE second half of August brought some stagnation to the stock market, following the sharp rise which 
began in and carried over from July. This stagnation has caused many persons to wonder whether the 
market has not reached the end of its advance, and some of them are preparing themselves against a 
substantial reaction. My view is that we are still far from the peak which the planetary configurations 
indicate  for stocks. Last  year—in August, 1935—the writer indicated in one of his articles that we are 
slated to reach, in the Dow-Jones averages; the low of November 13, 1929, and it seems certain that we 
are now-heading toward it. Only when it has been reached can we truly say: "Here is a substantial top." 
However, this does not mean that we are free to buy and buy without discrimination. We must even-
expect a serious reaction in mid-October, concerning which I will write at length in the next Magazine. 
Magazine. This reaction should bring the market back down to where it starts in September, or very-close 
to that level. 
 
The market for September should start out strong and keep right on going into new high ground up to 
Monday, September 7, as indicated in the accompanying graph of the stock probabilities. This upward 
movement may, in fact, continue until Tuesday, September 8. From this date on, after a slight recession 
lasting until September 10, we shall have to deal with a sidewise movement which will  last  until the 
25th. 
 
Most traders probably will regard this sidewise movement as a period of distribution. But it will be 
unwise to get rid of your stock under this deceptive condition. Hold on to what you have and buy more 
during weakness. 
 
However, you may profitably do same switching at this time. Certain stocks that experienced great 
advances, during late August and early September may be sold out- and replaced with issues that up till 
now have been laggards. Do your selling on strength and make replacements on weakness. You know that 
there are always late comers in every group. They will not forget to move: they are just tardy. A very 
strong upward movement should begin after September 27 and run over into October. Therefore, you 
should hold your stocks into the following month. 
 
Remember: The find goal for stocks is 198 in the Dow-Jones averages. 
 
WHEAT MOVEMENTS IN SEPTEMBER 
 
 
24
Coming. now to the trend of wheat, we must conclude that this commodity is still moving upward to 
begin September, with the end not yet in sight. We have to expect a rapid upward trend during the first

--- PAGE 50 of 260 ---

five days of the month, to a top that more than likely will not be exceeded during the remainder of the 
month. 
 
Saturday, September 5—possibly showing strength on the previous afternoon—brings planetary 
suggestions that the trader should dispose of all wheat and take a short position therein until the 18th of 
the month. If great weakness develops on Thursday, September 17, it will be a hint to cover shorts already 
and buy long wheat again. A temporary setback can be expected on September 23, but this wilt blow over 
within a day or two, when the upward movement will be resumed, to be continued into the month of 
October. 
 
To illustrate these tendencies, both for stocks and for wheat, during the month of September, 1936, the 
two charts published herewith will the general picture—and at the same time serve as a convenient ready-
reference. 
 
SUGGESTIONS FOR THE TRADER 
 
That the reader may better understand something of the theory which underlies the principles-of trading 
on which this forecast is based and thereby employ, these principles to greater advantage in a practical-
manner, the following general suggestions may prove helpful: 
 
Do not make trades for one or two points. If you do, the result invariably will be this: You will make two 
or three trades in succession and make a point, or possibly two points, 
 
 
 
 
 
of profit. Then the very next trade you nay be wrong and catch a stock that moves contrary to the market 
and a 10-point loss is quickly registered. 
 
Do not select the stock that moves 10 points today or tomorrow. This is like selecting a sweepstakes 
ticket. If, under normal conditions, you are able to make only three points net profit a month, you make 6 
points in one year. In their eagerness, most traders try to select the fastest moving, the most dangerous, 
stocks and end up with 36 points of loss at the end of the year. 
 
The big traders are satisfied with two points a month and have a hard time getting that much. How can 
you expect to do better than they? Yet there is some sort of illusion constantly better present with traders. 
Do you know, for instance, that 90 per cent of the traders are constant bulls, i.e., they only buy? They 
never get it into their minds to sell, but are always hoping for higher prices. 
 
 
25

--- PAGE 51 of 260 ---

26
In natural life, however, the first thing one says to a salesman who approaches one in attempt to force a 
sale, is: "I don't need it; I have no use for it; see me later—in a month or so." The salesman must push you 
into making the purchase. 
 
But in the market—that's different! The news ticker in the brokerage office, for example, will say: "This 
or that stock increases its dividend." The trader runs to buy it quickly— most likely right smack at the top. 
Yet you will never hear him talk about the losses. All that he tells you is that he made a point here and one 
and one-half points there. 
 
It seems that the market psychology of any trader is just the reverse of his natural impulses. In a future 
article I will try to bring out the astrological cause of this phenomenon. 
 
Do not try to operate in stocks according to the movement of the commodities. Harvester or Case do not 
move with wheat, nor does American Woolen move with the commodity wool. Each commodity has its 
own cycles that had its beginning at dates different from the dates of the stocks based upon it. 
 
Each stock moves individually, and no two move alike. However, all stocks are subject to the greater 
wheel called the "stock horoscope," which is expressed in the averages. This is why it is dangerous to 
trade in averages. Should you select the wrong group or the wrong stock, you may run into ten or more 
points loss, even though you are absolutely correct in interpreting the trend. 
 
Therefore, make it a rule to trade in stocks that actually move with the trend and leave alone those that 
temporarily move against it. 
 
Trade only in active stocks that move in eighths or quarters at the most and which have plenty of volume. 
Keep away from stocks which jump a half point or more, between sales. They are too risky and, when an 
unexpected move occurs, it is practically impossible to extricate yourself. 
 
(October will provide plenty of thrills for the average trader, and Mr. Bayer will be with us to give our 
readers the benefit of his patiently charted findings.—Editor.)

--- PAGE 52 of 260 ---

October Stocks and Wheat 
Sound Advice for the Investor Covering General 
Market Movements 
By George Bayer 
 
 
In presenting this first article in a series by George Bayer, feels that it is offering a service of 
real value to the stock and wheat devotee. Mr. Bayer’s methods embody the practical results of 
many years of concentrated research and testing, and his charts (which the Editor has examined 
with care) show a high degree of accuracy. The author’s conclusion and advice are based on 
sound reasoning in the field of Advanced Astrology and will merit your earnest consideration. 
Those of our readers who are especially interested in the market movements are invited to 
write directly to Mr. Bayer, at 3216 Crescent Street, Long Island City, New York. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE market improved during the last few days of September and worked itself out of the trading range on 
the upside that it had held for nearly three weeks.  
 
The general   feeling should  become  very bullish once the month of October gets well started, and there 
should be strong price rises. The market should produce developments that will make front-page news. 
 
But it is well to remember that whenever the market is making the front pages, to it is to be regarded as a 
stimulus to the buying public, and therefore denotes a good time to watch one's step. For no sooner does 
the public step into the market—it always steps in with both feet—than the market turns into a bed of 
quicksand. 
 
To make a long story, short, October 5—or the 6th at the latest—should find the market at an important 
top. A sidewise movement should develop around these top levels and continue until October 13, when 
there probably will be "bad news" which will put a crimp into the market and this will last until October 
21. Traders will remember that October 21 was an important bottom three years ago. It will be an 
important bottom in 1936 also, and the market stands to lose all the gains of early October and most of the 
gains registered in September, so that prices will touch the levels prevailing early in September. 
 
Then will come the election news, with its excitement and many false notes, the market situation will look 
rather questionable. Traders generally will adopt an attitude of watchful waiting, and some of them 
probably will put out a string of short positions. But the period will prove to be a bottom. Front-page 
buyers will sell again that which they bought at high prices, and the world (and the market) will run on 
without them. 
 
Following closely on October 21, prices begin to rise again, and should continue to do so until the end of 
the month. 
 
Long positions, therefore, should be held until October 5 and then disposed of, on strength, during the 
next several days. Those issues which cease to remain strong shortly after the top is indicated, may be 
safely sold short, and such short positions should be held over until October 21. At that time, when 
general weakness comes out and selling occurs all over, cover your shorts and buy stocks again from 
people who do not want them.  Hold these through, into November. 
 
 
 
 
27

--- PAGE 53 of 260 ---

WHEAT INDICATIONS 
 
WHEAT during October will see important changes, and profits can be made quickly if you watch the 
activity closely. 
 
A top is indicated for October 5, the same as with stocks, but this probably will be followed by a sharp 
decline extending to October 12 (which happens to be a holiday). A comeback should follow this decline, 
continuing until October 23, with another reaction extending throughout the remainder of the month. 
 
It is worthy of notice that during the previous cycle corresponding to the action of wheat from October 5 
to 12, we had a 10-cent decline in the price of wheat. This does not necessarily mean that wheat will again 
drop 10 cents, bur this conclusion may not be much in error. 
 
The general picture of the movement in stocks and wheat during October is given in the accompanying 
graphs. Traders will find it to their advantage to keep in mind the general remarks published with my 
forecast in which  remarks are applicable to the market at all times. 
 
 
 
28

--- PAGE 54 of 260 ---

29
Do Sun Spots Control Business? 
By GEORGE BAYER 
 
 
THOSE who scoff at the possibilities of planetary influences affecting conditions—-or people—upon this 
planet called Earth may find food for thought in a copyrighted article sent out under date of August 8, 
1936, by the Associated Press. This article, presumably the work of a materialistic economist, deals with 
the effect which sun spots produce upon mundane business conditions. The graph which the Associated 
Press supplied with the article is reproduced herewith. Students of Astrology, we trust, will be 
broadminded enough not to point out that Mr. Stetson’s conclusions must he based on superstition or a 
hangover from the dark ages of human intelligence. Indeed, a few of you may even find it possible to 
admit that there is "something" in the sun spot theory which Mr. Stetson propounds. 
 
By Harlan True Stetson 
 
BOSTON—The possible connection between activity on the Sun and business activity (on Earth) calls to 
mind major movements in both solar and industrial affairs during the last decade. 
 
"If one utilizes as an index of solar activity the occurrences of disturbances of the Sun, technically known 
as sun spots, we have a curve sufficiently similar to the business curve since 1927 as to at least one 
thinking concerning the reality of cosmic and industrial correlations. 
 
"To be sure, the bottom of the business slump occurred in 1932 and not 1933, as was the case with sun 
spots. Nevertheless solar activity has been reflected most remarkably in the last ten years by industrial 
affairs. If this is to be taken seriously, the recent rise toward a new sun spot high may give hope sustained 
recovery in business. 
 
Link to Auto Output 
 
"Of course, the correspondence between these two curves may be accidental. If one goes back further in 
economic history he will not find the striking resemblance between sun spots and business persisting 
without notable exceptions. Nevertheless, four out of the five last major depressions have followed in 
from two to five years after a maximum in the sun spot curve. 
 
"If there is some subtle change in the character of solar radiation, which in various ways may tend to 
influence a man's spending psychology, then perhaps the number of automobiles marketed should be a 
good index of mass buying psychology. In any event, a second diagram showing automobile production 
from 1929 to date gives another striking resemblance to solar activity so far as production of sun spots is 
concerned. Whether this trend will follow through the next solar cycle time alone will tell. 
 
Radio Held Tie-Up Proof 
 
"We do know that sun spots are definitely associated with certain magnetic and electric changes in the 
Earth and its atmosphere, from years of observation data. A close correspondence between the character 
of radio transmission and the sun-spot cycle appears established beyond any reasonable doubt, as the 
result of quantitative measurements made during the last fifteen years. 
 
"Whether there is sufficient change in the amount and character of the radiation sent to us from the Sun to 
affect the growth of plants and man's psychological behavior, and hence his economic status, must for the 
present be left to speculation?”

--- PAGE 55 of 260 ---

IN OTHER words,  materialistic   thinkers  may  be   willing to admit that influences sent forth from the 
Sun DO affect inanimate, insensate, dense materials through "magnetic or electric changes."   But it still 
seems too impossible for them to accept the immensely less fantastic belief that such "magnetic or electric 
changes"  (which the astrologer denominates "planetary influence," or "planetary vibration") can exert 
pressure of any kind upon the incalculably more sensitive mechanism and materials of which animate, 
sensate man is composed. 
 
 
 
To those whose minds are not held in the grip of dogmatic prejudice the inescapable conclusion is that a 
planetary emanation of energy sufficient to produce a mundane reaction affecting material commodities 
must certainly wield an influence upon the volatile human mind and character. We fear, however, that 
even the mild suggestions put forth by Mr. Stetson will bring down upon him the supercilious wrath of 
those professional star-gazers whose powers of observation limit their study of the solar system to its 
mechanical evolutions. 
 
30

--- PAGE 56 of 260 ---

What Makes a Lucky Speculator 
Study These Charts and Find Out!— Prizes for the 
Best Analyses 
 
31
EREWITH we publish the horoscopes of four actual 
people. Unpack all your astrological knowledge and 
analyze them with an eye to discovering their "own-
ers'" among the following list: 
A  n a t i v e  w h o s e  
r e sources run well above 
$12,000.000 
A  
n a ti v e  w h o  w o n  
heavily on sweepstakes. 
A native who, although 
well-to-do, and an earnest 
student 
of 
the 
stock 
market, cannot seem t o      
m a k e  h e a d w a y . 
A 
native 
who, 
after 
rushing into the market 
and making a killing, then 
gets the idea he “knows it 
all"—and 
finds 
himself 
out of luck. 
These four charts, 
then, represent  four 
distinct  types  of  persons 
who  speculate: 
l—The   Permanent   rich;   his   planetary  positions   must  be 
such that good aspects enrich him quickly and bad aspects do 
little harm. 
. 
2—The one-day fly; his planetary positions at birth may not 
indicate 
anything 
unusual 
unless 
progressions 
are 
employed. The progressions will show that at a specific time during his life 
a windfall will come to him. 
3—The average, well-to-do trader who makes his living  in stocks  or  
commodities. Profits and losses 
 
ts    and    equalize, 
with 
a 
fair 
"over-
weight" 
t o w a r d  
profits. 
4—The 
so-called 
"jumper" in the mar-
ket. One month he is 
rich, the next he is 
broke again. A constant 
see-sawing of good and 
bad luck, due to his 
desire to "double his 
money on one more 
chance," and to so-
called 
pyramiding 
at 
the wrong time. 
 
PRIZES FOR BEST ANALYSES 
O  YOUR  best  to make   a   thorough  analysis  of  these 
four charts, and give the reasons why specific aspects 
to be found in the respective charts, or specific signs, 
positions in houses, or other salient factors, lead to your con-
clusions.  Indicate the particular type of person to which each 
chart belongs. The prizes are as follows: 
First Prize—A copy of George Bayer's manuscript book, 
"The Time Element in the Stock Market,' retail value, $20. 
First Prize—Your own five-fold horoscope, with its interpre-
tation and use, including correction of birth-moment, showing 
Note—The order in which the horoscopes are printed has 
nothing whatever to do with its- classification as to type. You 
are to determine this by studying each chart. 
65 actual fixed planetary positions at any time, erected by 
George Bayer's method. 
H 
First Prize—Forecast of the  stock  market trend for  the 
entire year 1937, ma e by George Bayer. 
d
There will be three 
first - prize     awards, 
19 
and each winner may 
choose any one of 
the three first prizes 
enumerated here. 
The competition is 
open   to  all   readers. 
An-
swers must be mailed 
not later than October 
30, 1936. Announcement 
of the winners, together 
with 
the 
three 
best 
analyses, 
will 
be 
published 
as 
soon 
thereafter as possible. 
Limit each-analysis to 
not more than 300 
words. Address your entries to George Bayer, 3216 Crescent Street, Long 
Island City, N.  Y. 
SUGGESTIONS TO CONTESTANTS 
1—Locate the day, year and month when each native was born. 
2—Locate the exact time when, he was born. 
3—Locate the latitude times when he was born. 
4—Judge the planets which have influence upon speculation: 
(a) the   aspects  to-
ward other planets: 
(b) their   effect   by 
sign     position;     (c) 
their effect by house 
position. 
5—Judge the gen-
eral appearance of 
t h e  
horoscope; 
whether or not the 
planets that influence 
speculation are trou-
bled by others and 
thus prevent bene-
ficial conditions from 
b e i n g  
realized; 
whether 
unfavorable 
conditions 
are 
ren-
dered 
f a v o r a b l e  
through certain spe-
cific major conditions. 
6—Compare your own horoscope with these to discover 
whether any relationship exists, and search your own life as to 
the possible effect certain positions should have, und judge 
accordingly. 
7—Do not imagine that these four charts are difficult to 
analyze for they represent just ordinary, everyday cases. The, 
are correctly made, and anything that is correct is relatively 
easy to solve. 
8—Keep in mind that your analysis is not to cover anything 
except the factors which show why these four individuals do 
speculate and the degree of their success, as revealed by the 
horoscope. 
Study of these four charts may enable many readers to dis-
cover hidden powers in their own horoscopes which, if utilized, 
both the positive and the negative, may assist them to attain 
success.
flo.l 
D

--- PAGE 57 of 260 ---

November Stocks and Wheat 
How to Figure for a Win During the Month After Election 
By George Bayer 
 
At the recent All-American Astrological Convention Chicago. Mr. Bayer, was one of 
the unexpected “stars.” Being slated for only two formal addresses on his favorite 
themes, stock market and Biblical Astrology, he was actually called to the rostrum  
four separate times, the hundreds of eager and convention attendants demanding 
further information concerning Mr. Bayer's new and surprisingly workable methods. 
Following the convention, a, group of his auditors insisted that Mr. Bayer remain over 
in Chicago in order to give them special and additional professional instruction in 
these methods. Needless to say, Magazine feels a justifiable pride, in the fact that Mr. 
Bayer is one of our contributors, and that the profession generally recognizes the 
value of his methods when applied to practical matters. 
 
Before we discuss the market prospects for November, a word to the readers may be 
in order. 
 
Many people who never traded in stocks, wheat, silk or other commodities have a 
quite inaccurate idea of what it is all about. For the benefit of each readers, it may 
be well to explain that trading in commodities is done in large quantities. 
 
Cotton is traded in 25,000-lb units; wheat is traded in 5,000 bushel units; hides in 
40,000-lb units; coffee in 32,500-lb units; zinc and lead in 60,000-lb units; silk in 
1,300-1b units; sugar in 50-ton units; butter in 19,200-lb units; and cottonseed oil in 
units of 60,000lbs. This is quite elementary, of course, but probably many readers of 
this magazine will here learn of these various units for the first time. 
 
Trading is done in options for certain specific months, for which contracts are made. 
These contracts are bought and sold on exchanges. Most of the commodities are 
traded in cents and 1/100 of a cent. An advance of 1/100 cent usually means $6 in 
profit per unit, while a decline of 3/100cent means a loss of $18. 
 
 
 
- 32 -

--- PAGE 58 of 260 ---

Trading in commodities, so far as the writer has found, is much easier and safer than 
trading in stocks. When once a trend in a commodity has been established, this trend 
runs for long time in one direction, and profits of 200 points or more in a two or three 
month advance are not unusual.  
 
The sum usually required for trading in a commodity usually is between $500 and 
$800 per unit, as above indicted. It is less in oats, rye or flaxseed, because the 
fluctuations in these particular commodities are not as wild. The investor or 
speculator's $500 or $800 is not used to pay for anything, but simply as the security to 
take care of fluctuations. All you get when you go in for a commodity speculation is a 
receipt stating that you carry one contract of wheat, for example, at 110 3/8 long. This 
receipt gives you the right to sell your contract at any time - tomorrow, in one month, 
or at any time within the life of the contract (which always is stipulated as December, 
March, June, etc.) 
 
Suppose you buy such a contract, and that wheat then moves up 2 1/2 cents in ten 
days or two weeks, that is, to 113 1/8. You may wish to sell and take that profit. Each 
cent in wheat fluctuations means $50. Thus 2 1/2 cent advance would mean 
$125 in profits, less the commission (which is $12.50 for the “round trip and taxes.”). 
 
Should the market move against you and you feel that it could go lower, you would 
sell that contract quickly and take the loss. 
 
Supposing wheat declines to 109 after you bought at 110 5/8 and you think you were 
wrong in buying it at 110 5/8. You watch for a slight rally and then "dump" it. 
Supposing you sold it at 109 1/2 on a rally. This would net a loss of 1 1/8 points plus 
the commission and taxes (you never escape these two), or about $69. 
 
Of course, trading on such small swings is not done, as a rule, because if you tried it, 
your nerves always would be on edge. You have to try for larger swings. It is strange 
that, two or three commodities move up strongly, four or five others may move down 
strongly, and another three or four may be in sidewise movement, meaning that they 
have narrow fluctuations. The way to proceed would be to move from one commodity 
after it completes its movement into another that is just beginning to move. 
 
You are trading in slips of paper, anyway, and whether on your slip it says "one 
contract of wheat?' or "one contract of hides," or of rubber, as long as the price moves 
your way, you will make profits. For this reason, it is not at all necessary to definitely 
differentiate as to "what” you shall trade in, but to look more closely as to "which" 
commodity it is that is moving. This rule of course applies also to stocks and bonds, 
although many market speculators and investors fail to recognize or follow it. 
 
 
 
- 33 -

--- PAGE 59 of 260 ---

THE average newcomer to the market, and most of the so-called "board traders," 
believe that the market is a place to gamble, to take chances. They look for the 
fastest stock, for the most swiftly moving, in the shortest period of time. This type of 
investor or speculator invariably will lose, and it is merely a matter of time until we 
see them go back to the "places" where they made the money with which to 
momentarily splurge in the stock market. 
 
In those places, usually, such folks same 6% or 8% return, but in stocks and 
commodities they wanted—or, at any rate, tried—to make a 100% return on their 
money in a single day. There are, of course, times when this can be done. But at most 
times, it simply cannot be done. My estimate of a normal return on investments in the 
market, even exercising much care and being equipped with a great deal of “spare” 
knowledge and experience—is that the successful speculator may obtain a 50% 
increase in one year. 
 
However, even members of the New York Stock Exchange do not expect more than 
two points profit per month, or 24 points in a year, and please believe me when I say 
that most of them have a difficult time doing even that well. Besides, in any such 
estimates, we must take off the occasional losses and the commissions which, if not 
watched carefully, swiftly run into big figures. 
 
It is quite true that the markets offer the greatest opportunity for anyone to make "big" 
money; but they are also the hardest fields to go into. If you use Astrology and its 
intricate laws, you will soon find that all market monuments are caused, by planetary 
influences, and that the little people who buy and sell, do so at the dictation of planets 
(at least subconsciously, although they may believe individually that they are 
equipped with an immense quantity of will power or intelligence.) 
 
Now that we have reached an understanding, permit me to suggest that the following 
paragraphs furnish a brief analysis of the planetary influences affecting the stock and 
wheat markets during the month of November, 1936. That is, the following picture of 
the November markets also is a picture of how the planetary influences will influence 
the minds of traders as a group. It may be added parenthetically, that the labor 
 
- 34 -

--- PAGE 60 of 260 ---

involved in working out these two generic groups prevents the writer, in the space 
available, from working out or analyzing the trends in other speculative or investment 
opportunities. However, these latter are available from the wrier for the benefit of 
those readers who are particularly interested. 
 
NOVEMBER STOCKS 
 
THE strong movement inaugurated near the end of last month is indicated to end the 
first day of the month of November. The election does not seem to move stocks out of 
their narrow trading range until November 10, or even the 12th of the month. 
 
Whatever the outcome of the election may be, the big cycle says, "Up." Thus, we 
should move up beginning November 10 and the make a minor top on the 18th or 19th, 
at latest. A sharp. Quick reaction should then ensure, but this should end on 
November 21 or 22. This reaction should be followed by a straight sharp upturn, 
making new highs all over, until into the month of December. 
 
Specific suggestions are as follows: 
 
During the sidewise movement of the first ten days of November, buy good stocks on 
any small weakness that may appear. Quick traders may want to take advantage of the 
indicated intermediate reaction from the 18th or 19th to the 21sr or 22nd of the month, 
but others, however, should hold stock right through into December. The whole 
November picture of the stock market is given in the accompanying graph, which the 
trader should keep at hand for frequent reference. 
 
WHEAT IN NOVEMBER 
 
THE wheat market this month presents a rather complicated picture. Several 
substantial swings are indicated, which means that every quick trader, large or small, 
must keep his ear close to the ground in order to be ready for quick shifts of position. 
 
However, the main trend in wheat is upward and long-range traders should not 
overlook that factor, especially when tempted to profit by the lesser movements. 
 
Wheat probably will head downward at the beginning of the month, as indicated by 
the annexed graph, with a bottom appearing on November 10, when there will 
develop a definite possibility of a sharp selling wave, with which the decline probably 
will terminate. 
 
A vigorous comeback should begin immediately, lasting for at least a week, and 
calling for a top on November 17. The remaining days of November will find Venus 
rather strong, tending to uphold the prices, but at the same time other planetary 
Influences will call for lower price levels. 
 
My conclusion regarding this anomalous situation is that the market will gradually go 
down until November 21 followed by a sudden reaction, then lower levels until 
November 25, with slowly rising prices from that date on to the end of the month. 
The upmove between the 10th and 17th should proceed most rapidly after November 
12. The whole picture with regard to the wheat market is revealed in the 
accompanying graph. 
 
- 35 -

--- PAGE 61 of 260 ---

Astrologers Make History at Convention 
Three Days and Nights of Concentrated, Enthusiastic 
Professional Good Fellowship 
 
WITH an attendance of from 500 to 1000 ardent students of the ancient science at 
each session, the All-America Astrological Convention, held at the Stevens Hotel, in 
Chicago, on September 1, 2 and 3, beyond question accomplished a great deal toward 
establishing Astrology as a profession entitled to serious popular consideration. 
 
Actual attendance figures show that nearly five thousand different persons attended 
one or more of the sessions, and that some 400 astrologers-student and professional-
attended every session without fail. 
 
The program at each session was crowded with splendid addresses and carefully 
prepared papers, and these were heard by audiences which listened carefully, 
thoughtfully, and with notebooks in hand. The Stevens Hotel management contributed 
generously to the success of the gathering, first by providing a perfectly gorgeous 
lecture hall and spacious lounging rooms, and second by a most considerate effort to 
make each individual astrologer feel at home and happy. 
 
Those present were unanimously unsparing in their praise of the work which Dr. W. 
W. Davidson had done in arranging the program and for the meeting place, as well as 
for the many little extra services for which he made provision. Dr. Davidson devoted 
nearly all of his time for many months to the gigantic task of making the convention a 
success, carrying the entire burden of correspondence and responsibility himself and 
without expectation of personal reward. Those present were quick to grasp the 
significance of Dr. Davidson's magnanimous efforts in behalf of the profession, and 
with one accord tendered human enthusiastic rising vote of appreciation as the 
convention came to a close. 
 
The only trouble with the convention was that quickly ended. Scores of astrologers 
remained over in Chicago for several days, and the public rooms of the Stevens Hotel 
continued to look as though the convention were still in session until the following 
Sunday. “Next time,” was the gist of the general sentiment, “we will come prepared to 
stay for a week—if the program is a good as this one.” 
 
THE PROGRAM 
 
THE lecture hall was equipped with sound amplifying apparatus, a fact greatly 
appreciated by those speakers who were not used to addressing huge gatherings. It 
was also appreciated by the audiences, to whom each word spoken came clearly and 
audibly. 
 
Dr. Davidson opened the first session, introduced many of those from a great distance, 
and made everybody feel at home. Then he gave over the chairmanship of the 
convention to C. E. Luntz, of St. Louis, who performed his duties with admirable 
courtesy and adaptability. Mr. Luntz also delivered several announced addresses on 
the more advanced phases of astrological philosophy and practice. 
 
 
- 36 -

--- PAGE 62 of 260 ---

George Bayer of New York, who is well-known to readers from his stock market and 
other articles, make a deep impression with his explanation of the astrological 
measurements and rules which are to be found in the Bible. So great was the interest 
in Mr. Bayer’s talks that he was called to the rostrum four different times, and finally 
prevailed upon by a group of students to remain in Chicago after the convention and 
conduct a special class in the subject of which he is an outstanding master. 
 
Another writer whom you all know, and whose paper on “The problems of Neuroses,” 
elicited exceptionally favorable comment at the convention, was Robert A. Hughes, of 
Hamilton, Ontario. This paper was of a nature so practical and informative that the 
convention secretary was besieged with requests that it be printed and made available 
for wide distribution. 
 
Richard Svehla of Cleveland, Ohio, gave two talks on "The New Uranian Astrology." 
which were in keeping with the modern trends of thought and action: Howard Duff of 
Cleveland made a genuine hit with his illustrated, witty talks on character and types; 
and Haidee U. Brooks of East St. Louis, Illinois-another favorite-presented a series of 
predictions in the mundane field. 
 
Two speakers whose appearances was eagerly awaited were Mrs. Max Heindel, of the 
Rosicrucian Fellowship, of Oceanside, California, and L. J. Jenson, of Kansas City, 
Mo. Mrs. Heindel’s papers on vocational and child training and on esoteric Astrology 
were, of course, contributions of high value, for they were based upon personal 
studies and researched extending over a long period of years. Mr. Jensen discussed 
financial Astrology and Astro-economics, a subject in which he has made for himself 
a national reputation. 
 
Marie Mercury Meyer, in a paper entitled “New Concepts of Astrology,” and A. M. 
Ziegler, with “Suggested Lines of Research,” gave their auditors many valuable 
suggestions in the way of making ordinary horoscope work yield nuggets of new 
information. This was a note often heard during the convention, and many were the 
agreements made between individual astrologers to share their research findings with 
each other. The point also was made frequently that the astrological profession should 
somehow set up a research laboratory to which all might contribute material, and from 
which all might be able to obtain the latest and best-authenticated information. 
 
Mrs. Geraldine B. Usher's paper on "Astrology and the Great Pyramid," was of 
absorbing interest not only to astrologers, but to a great section of the public which 
has been following the pyramidal revelations for many years. Miss Elizabeth Aldrich, 
of New York, presented two interesting papers, “Mundane Astrology” and “Flowers, 
Jewels and Colors,” and you may well believe the last-mentioned brought the 
notebooks and pencils into play. 
 
Leon C. Danus, of Chicago, who is gaining an international reputation because of his 
careful research work, described “The Genesis of his Houses,” and William E. Gates 
presented a thought-quickening paper on “Astrology and the Pre-Determination of 
Sex.” 
 
DR. DAVIDSON, who made the convention possible, was slated for one talk on 
“Astrology as a Guide to Health,” and one on Advanced Astrology.” Being a 
 
- 37 -

--- PAGE 63 of 260 ---

physician, Dr. Davidson is most eminently qualified to discuss these subjects, and the 
great audience was so deeply interested that he was called upon for more each time a 
few odd moments cropped up in the program throughout the entire convention. 
Pressure also was applied by numerous astrologers who want Dr. Davidson either to 
present the fruits of a book, or in class-work under his personal tutelage. 
 
Besides the formal addresses already mentioned, there were many impromptu talks by 
astrologers from, literally, all over the country, each of these bringing out some 
special fact or point concerning which they had something new to offer. 
 
Not a moment of the entire three-day convention was wasted, each day being crowed 
with worth-while discussions from early morning until virtually midnight. The 
fellowship engendered, the friendships formed, and the vistas of future possibilities 
thus opened, certainly, certainly afford substantial grounds for believing that the 
profession will benefit tremendously if it can meet in convention annually hereafter. 
 
The Chicago newspapers, as well as the national press and radio services, gave due 
recognition to the convention and to individual astrologers. All such references were 
dignified and serious, which in itself means that Astrology at last is coming into its 
own as a worth-while subject. 
 
 
- 38 -

--- PAGE 64 of 260 ---

Forecasts for Stocks and Wheat 
Notes to Traders for December 1936 
By GEORGE BAYER 
 
 
 
IT IS assumed by the author that following the forecast just “blindly” may cause 
severe losses and some experience is necessary to recognize that. Once in a while, 
when the forecast indicates a top and prices have been declining constantly until that 
day, it cannot possibly be a top, but a bottom. This means that while the date of 
change is correctly analyzed, the direction may be at fault due to the fact that the 
forecast is made three months in advance. To circumnavigate this difficulty, the 
author has inaugurated a special service, weekly, to analyze stocks and wheat also 
cotton at close range. 
 
Most traders are aware of the fact that practically each year just while we go out 
shopping Christmas gifts something unpleasant happens in the market—it usually 
goes down just before Christmas. 
 
This year should be no exception. Astrological calculations point to a top the middle 
of the month, the 14th to be more exact, should for the time being end the big long 
cycle that began with the bottom of April 30th, last. We most likely will have reached 
our Dow Jones level of  198 by then, confirming my statement made long ago that we 
are heading for this level. This was the low reached November, 1929 (November 13), 
after the headlong decline that began September 3, of that year. 
 
The spirited advance during the latter part of November should keep right up 
unabated with only one day sharp decline (December 4 to 5), until December 14, 
1936. After that, weakness should get into stocks until the 20th, followed by another 
upward move which, however most likely will not reach the old high any more made 
December 23rd, 1936 the day after Christmas should bring a very much lower opening 
in the stock market, and at the same time another bottom, calling for buying once 
more for another push-up which, however, should miss the high of the previous 
movement again. A top is indicated for the 29th of the month. 
 
We are getting into a distributive market in December and in such markets a lot of 
money is made and lost depending whether or not you catch the movements just right 
or whether you just get what is commonly termed in Wall Street “whip-sawed.” 
 
Unless you are close to the picture, i.e., the market, or your actions are corroborated 
by special close analysis of one who knows markets well and the action of planetary 
 
- 39 -

--- PAGE 65 of 260 ---

forces in particular as they affect stocks, the suggestion would be to hold stocks until 
the 14th of December, and sell then all on that day, turn around and do your Christmas 
shopping and enter the market once more after the New Year. This may not sound to 
be a good business principle on the surface, but having been in the market on the bull 
side definitely since last July 6th and only once bearish during October, you should 
have made some nice profit to be able to take a vacation for two weeks. The January 
issue will reach you in time to make your plans for the new year. 
 
WHEAT FORECAST FOR DECEMBER, 1936 
 
At the time of writing this forecast (October 2, 1936), some traders cannot very well 
see that in December Wheat should be about another 30 cents higher than its present 
price. To those be it said that the writer could not see higher prices neither, unless the 
study of Astrology, the special laws that govern Wheat movements would help him to 
issue a forecast. A forecast can only be made when the repeating cycles are known as 
to their duration and the relative advance or decline can be determined. 
 
As prices move higher, fluctuations necessarily become larger and the margin that 
was ample when we bought Wheat around 84 cents as we did last June is much too 
small at this time and would lead to ruin if an unexpected influence would appear out 
of the blue sky and cause a temporary sharp decline of 10 cents or so, turn around and 
move upward another 20 cents. Therefore our position must be secure against such 
events by having enough margin. And plenty of margin causes no sleepless nights. 
 
 
 
 
Had I known the movement of wheat as it should develop according to astrological 
rules during December, 1936, I would not have gone into all the details above. The 
analysis according to the previous cycle shows very clearly an uninterrupted upward 
movement in Wheat nearly the entire month of December. The only periods of 
hesitation or stagnation should occur between the 9th and 12th of the month and again 
after the 21st. 
 
The suggestions therefore to traders would be to buy Wheat at the beginning of the 
month and sell it on Christmas eve. This seems to be the easiest month to analyze we 
had for a long while. 
 
 
- 40 -

--- PAGE 66 of 260 ---

Of course, there may be traders who will say how about the small movement? There 
surely must be reactions in that upward move! 
 
At the last convention of astrologers at Chicago I met several traders of that type. 
When I asked them the question: "Did you make any money in the 30-cent upmove 
from June 6 to August 6?” they said, "That market was too difficult for us, because it 
went straight up and did not give us a chance to cover our short positions…?' 
 
During this upward move in December for Wheat, I am quite certain that those two 
traders will not make any money again, because they are not accustomed to sit for a 
while with their Wheat and just look at it going in one direction. As it moves a point 
or so they quickly sell it short to “chisel a point," taking two points loss instead. After 
the move is over they are in a big hole and no wiser than before. 
 
There are periods in the market, in any market as far as that goes when planetary 
forces are about equalized, the good and the bad. This brings a trading market, a so 
called "chiseler’s market.” At other times we get movements in one direction and 
Stocks or Wheat must be held and only sold when this movement is over or competed. 
To distinguish between them is difficult for the average trader and impossible for 
those who .watch the markets at-board rooms. 
 
Thus, Stocks should have a movement that is favorable for chiselers while Wheat 
should have a movement favorable for those that hold it till Christmas and stay out till 
the end of the month. 
 
 
- 41 -

--- PAGE 67 of 260 ---

Contest Results 
What Makes a Lucky Speculator? 
 
THE race is over. It was a fine race. Plenty of fighting for first place; plenty of 
thoughts to find who it could be blindly, studying the planetary positions as given in 
print, without knowing the natives in question brought forth the following facts: 
 
1. The majority is always wrong. In the stock market the majority is wrong as you 
may know from personal experience. If everybody feels we go to the devil, prices 
rise; if everyone likes stocks, we go down. 
 
2. The ones who now do not like to tell how they do it. I do not blame them. Their 
knowledge is their asset and when given out, it is gone, dissipated. 
 
3. There were all told nine entries; thus there should have been not less than 900 (to 
keep in normal proportions) that would have liked to compete but lacked the nerve to 
do so. 
 
4. Two entries stated as introduction that they do not compete on account of the 
prizes, but to register what they think the solution should be. It revealed their 
insecurity bravely; this statement is laudable and although they did have all misses, as 
they expected themselves, it shows that to be wrong, but trying, is better, much than 
to say afterwards, I had picked the winners, if…” 
 
5. A print error occurred in picture No. 1; the Moon’s place should have been shown 
as 29:22 Libra instead of 19:2 Libra and was duly noted by two of the winners. 
 
6. Two parties, living far apart, one of them 71 years old, the other, 67 years of age, 
answered 100% correctly. 
 
One party had two hits and two errors. 
 
Two parties had one hit and three errors. 
 
Four entries were 100% wrong. 
 
As stated before, the 100% winners did not enlarge their reasons for picking the 
winners. We therefore have to take recourse to the explanation of other winners. 
Before doing so, let me state details about the four natives whose horoscopes were 
given. 
 
Chart No. 1: The Permanent Rich. 
 
A man, used to be a lawyer, specializing with estates. Through marriage and business 
connections accumulated immense sums of money; handles very large estate accounts 
besides. Employs 25 college graduates to make charts of stocks and occupies his 
workshop, 16 rooms in one of the largest hotels of New York. 
 
Chart No. 2: The Jupiter 
 
 
- 42 - 
 
Jesse Lauriston Livermore

--- PAGE 68 of 260 ---

A man, working for years on a job, paying about $40 a week during nights (from 12 
to 8 AM); from 10 AM to 2 PM at the market –Wheat. Has relatives who pass him on 
and off a $1000 or so to operate; runs that money up to $8000 or $10,000. When 
there, he gets the idea of knowing it all and before he realizes it, he is back to the 
point of beginning or even below. Lately he obtained a method that gives him more 
stability in operations and his “jumping” seems to have moderated. 
 
Chart No. 3: The One-day Fly. 
 
A native of Estonia, formerly part of Russia, living in Johannesburg, South Africa. He 
is in business with a partner selling seeds. Won sweepstake when his progressed 
Jupiter became conjunct to his radix, Venus. 
 
Chart No. 4: The Well-to-do Student, Who Has Just the Same Difficulty to Get 
Places. 
 
This native, a man of high standing, known all over Wall Street for his extensive chart 
work; while against Astrology, he is open for anything that has to do with cycles; with 
angles, with day counts. He is under terrific strain, constantly, nervous. He tried to get 
the movements mechanically. Too only one single week's vacation in 10 years: 
constantly grinding away the days-trying to obtain market movements without 
Astrology. He has his cycles all laid out in advance and they arc fairly correct, but 
when the time arrives to act he seems to be all upset just then and fails to act 
promptly. Other cycles that he had projected later, causing him uneasiness as to the 
effect, as to the direction. 
 
Absolutely correct answers were received from: Mr. Walter L. Day, 546 Boulevard, 
Westfield, N. J. and Mr. L. J. Rogers, R.F.D. No. 7, Greensburg, Ind.-First Prize. 
 
Correctly answered No 2 and No. 4: Mr. Wm R. Schwab, 5345 Harper Ave., Chicago. 
111.-Second Prize. 
 
Correctly answered No. 2 and No. 3, respectively: Mr. Jerry T. Strait, 2003 Tatnall 
Street, Wilmington, Del., Mrs. Harriette S. Townsend, 556 Franklin Street, Melrose, 
Mass. 
 
Incorrect answers were filed by Mr. Spencer H,. Kankakee, Ill.; Mrs. Delia Z. B., Los 
Angles, Cal.: Mrs. Lucille C H, Denver, Colo., and Mrs. Marie G., Chicago, Ill. 
 
Answer of Mr. Schwab as to native born February 14, 1899: 
 
“The Moon in the Ninth House sextile to Neptune and Sun. Sun and Neptune being in 
trine from Air signs, give him excellent intuition. His hunches are generally correct 
and are the reason for his ability to occasionally profit in the market. The latter part of 
Leo and the first part of Virgo claiming the ascendant give him superior criticalness 
and this aggravated by Jupiter afflicting Mercury from the Third House give him an 
excess of self confidence. He is likely to throw all caution to the winds when his self 
confidence is encouraged he smallest amount. Mars in the Eleventh House and 
afflicted by the Moon would cause him to disregard, ever resent the advice of friends 
or statisticians (the latter is not a bad idea, G. B.). Venus in the Fifth House, sextile to 
 
- 43 -

--- PAGE 69 of 260 ---

Jupiter gives him considerable of what may be termed luck in his speculations. 
Neptune opposite Saturn on the cusp of the Eleventh and Fifth Houses show very 
much irregularity in gambling and speculation." 
 
Answer of Mr. Strait as to native born February 14, 1899: "Venus in the Fifth House, 
though in the intercepted sign of Capricorn, gives a love of speculation, very hard to 
resist, especially as a naturally speculative sign (Sagittarius is on the cusp. This 
position of Venus would give some success in speculation, but through his (Sun) own 
fault (Sun opposition ascendant) and bad judgment (Mercury square Jupiter) in 
attempting to get too much he finally loses everything (Saturn in the Fourth House) 
through speculation (Saturn in the Fifth House sign) Leo on the ascendant, with the 
Sun in opposition in Aquarius and both these signs being very proud and egotistical, 
certainly indicates that this person cannot let well enough alone and will continue 
until lie has lost everything, for he would not admit his mistakes. The Moon and Mars 
in mutual reception and Mars being the planet of desire indicates that his thoughts are 
along the lines of obtaining plenty but the bad aspect indicates the failure of these 
attempts. The Moon also indicates the headstrongness of this party, and his inability 
to accept advice. With Leo rising, this party could not be anything but a spectacular 
operator, and with Mercury (ruler of the Second House of money) square to Jupiter 
(Money) his judgment is not to he trusted for he attempts too much, especially along 
the lines of speculation, as Jupiter is ruler of the cusp of the Fifth House of 
speculation." 
 
Answer of Mr. R Schwab as to native born November 23, 1896: 
 
"Saturn, Uranus and Mercury conjoined and trine the Moon gives the native a faculty 
of thinking scientifically and methodically. With Capricorn rising he probably thinks 
too methodically to use the intuition producing trine of Uranus and the Moon. A 
saving grace is the Sun and Mercury conjunction In Sagittarius, giving him a 
philosophic outlook on life. Pluto in the fifth House afflicted by Jupiter gives him a 
doggedness in speculating that cannot be easily turned aside after he has set his mind 
on any plan. This man is potentially a bear trader (very true! ! G. B.) and most of his 
success may have been probably due to bear operations (fine! ! G. B.) when the Sun 
progressed came to a conjunction of the radical Venus and trine radical Jupiter in 
1929-30-31, he should have been very successful on the bear side of the market 
particularly if he speculated in grams or commodities ruled by Virgo in Capricorn. 
The trine of Venus and Jupiter in the chart is the best index of material success, and 
he should use it as much as possible." 
 
Answer of Mrs. Townsend as to native born October 26, 1897: 
 
"We consider this a weak chart in spite of the huge Scorpio stellium, and the planets 
rising in conjunction: nor are the other conjunction: particularly helpful in this chart. 
Jupiter conjunct Venus in the Tenth House is merely a strong good luck aspect (fine! 
G. B.) as is Venus sextile to Saturn and less so to Uranus. The only square is 
Neptune’s to Jupiter and this especially in mental signs, tends to mental and emotional 
confusion, visionary idealism and day dreaming, leading to the playing of hunches. 
Mars, the lord of the ascendant and Fifth House is well placed in Scorpio but its 
position on the cusp of the Twelfth House is most unfortunate, and its conjunction 
with the Moon lacking as it does, necessary checks, leads to rashness and 
 
- 44 -

--- PAGE 70 of 260 ---

overconfidence which even its conjunction with the Sun docs not improve. The 
conjunction of Saturn and Uranus, while it lends to magnetism, weakens a poor chart 
with confusion and is unfortunate for the ascendant, although the fact that Uranus is 
exalted in Scorpio will mitigate its worst effects. The absence of energizing squares 
and oppositions means absence of purposeful action and signifies little development 
of ability and character. Good luck indications are strong and numerous as M.C. 
ascendant and second cusp receive important sextiles; and Jupiter, lord of the Second 
House, is elevated to the Tenth House, is sextile the ascendant, and with Venus, is 
sextile the rising Saturn and Uranus. The opposition of Neptune to the second cusp. 
however, shows money losses. The semi-square of Mercury lord of the Eighth and 
Tenth Houses to Mars, lord of First and Fifth Houses, shows errors in judgment and 
consequent loss of standing, aggravated by Mars' position in the Twelfth House. This 
man mould under favorable progressions (! !) to the Tenth House planets, the-Scorpio 
planets and the ascendant, experience "runs of luck" and benefit by wind falls. 
 
The two competitors who answered every chart correctly each identically used an 
American quarter dollar to make four rings and in each they put the dates of birth with 
the correct number of rotation as they appeared in the October issue. 
 
They did not tell me how they did it. They might tell you? 
 
GEORGE BAY ER. 
 
Note-Each non-winner was awarded a consolation prize to repay him for the efforts 
he made! 
 
 
- 45 -

--- PAGE 71 of 260 ---

Forecasts for Stocks, Wheat and Cotton 
Notes to Traders for January, 1937 
By GEORGE BAYER 
 
THE market this month should prove to be rather uninteresting in as much as we enter 
a long period of distribution for stocks at high levels. The people did not want stocks 
back in 1932; now because the prices are way up in the air, the papers are full with 
increased dividends, with increased earnings, with prospects of unheard of new 
prosperity. The same, old song we heard in 1929; the same song was daily news late 
in 1919, the same song we heard in 1906 and 1902. 
 
Any speculation at this stage must be confined to individual stocks which chartwise 
indicate that they have not completed their cycle. The general level, approximately 
198 Dow Jones industrial average should be considered the top of the present bull 
market. We may come to this top several times, even surpass it by a few points, and 
decline again, until we reach once the same level again, decline from it and be gone 
downward for good. Anyone who may think I am a calamity Jane and see everything 
black, to those be it said that I was the first one to be bullish back in June, 1932, at a 
time when more stocks sold at 3/8 than you now find stocks selling below 20. 
 
This does not imply that we can find stocks that still have a possibility of making final 
runs of 20 points and more, the bulk of them, however, should be close to their highs, 
astrological laws indicate, especially so as we come toward the end of January, 1937. 
The month should open upward, hold within a narrow range for the first week, get a 
small sinking spell into the 11th to 15th. 
 
After the 15th a sharp upmove is due to develop that should keep up into the month of 
February. 
 
The highs of the end of January should surpass the highs made mid-December. The 
utilities should do best in the late runs. 
 
The suggestion for traders would be to dispose toward the end of January of about 
one-half of the line and include those stocks which act tired around that period. 
 
FORECAST FOR WHEAT 
 
Wheat looks pretty high around here. Last year around this time we made a top on the 
7th and it took 5 months to pass it. We are about 30c above this top of last year and 
we still can do better. 
 
The astrological forecast points toward slowly higher levels for the first half of the 
month and a top for the 15th or 16th; after that we should decline to the 25th of the 
month and move sidewise until the end of the month. This forecast is made with rules 
of repeating cycles. 
 
However, let me state that my biblical astrology shows me a top to be made on 
January 11th already instead of the 15th. Thus, the careful trader will watch this date 
and try to find whether we are not pounding on the roof with prices on that day, 
 
- 46 -

--- PAGE 72 of 260 ---

combined with heavy volume and little progress. In that case would clear long 
positions right there and then. 
 
FORECAST FOR COTTON 
 
THE cotton market for this month should witness little change and important 
movements are not likely to occur. However, this is no time to be bearish in cotton, 
because later in the year we should witness some very big movements upward, in fact 
I can see cotton to rise about 500 points before the year is out. For those who can buy 
and sit with cotton large profits should ensue. 
 
There have been frequently inquiries of readers about the question: "I have a 
horoscope that tells me I should not speculate." My impartial, general explanation to 
this question is this: First of all, it is a question of the exact birth moment. A few 
minutes out of the way brings planets into entirely different houses, sometimes into 
different signs. I do not believe that more than 10% have their birth moment correct or 
even nearly correct. 
 
Second, should there even be bad aspects involved or unfavorable Fifth House 
combinations they do not mean always that one should not speculate. Speculation is a 
rather broad expression. Under this heading belong: buying and selling of anything; 
gambling, taking risks of any kind. If we apply it that way, anyone who has an 
unfavorable 5th house will always get the smallest loaves from the baker, the toughest 
meats from the butcher; he would sell the best merchandise at a low price and go 
bankrupt so often that he never could get up. My conception of speculation is: to 
know values. Whether it is a suit or a dress, a house or a car, a stock or wheat, each 
one has a certain value at a certain time. Anticipating these values is where money is 
made. Such anticipation, however, as far as I can judge has very little to do with the 
Fifth House as so many assume, but it has to do (1) with a good Jupiter; (2) with a 
good Mercury. 
 
The former gives you luck automatically, whether you are intelligent or dumb, you 
just do the right thing at the right time. 
 
The latter gives you the ability to calculate with laws that Mercury finds for you to 
just simply figure out what values shall do; luck plays a very small part in that, just 
cold-blooded figuring. 
 
OF course, if one has a poor Jupiter and also a poor Mercury he seems to be "out of 
luck" as the saying goes. But I do not agree in that either; if his general horoscope is 
good or fairly good, indicating that he will get along and profit by buying and selling 
values of commodities and stocks, he will find that there are specialists available who 
even do the trading from beginning to end for him at a moderate fee. Such trading is 
called: handling discretionary accounts. Such accounts are accepted from $500 
upward to $50,000 and more and funds of traders are deposited by them with a stock 
broker in their own name. The traders give to the brokers in writing the permission 
that the specialist can do all the trading in his account. He will buy and sell whatever 
he figures to be the right stock or commodity that has the best chance in the near 
future to rise or drop. All transactions made in such an account are reported to the 
owner of the funds so that he always knows what is going on. The owner attends to 
 
- 47 -

--- PAGE 73 of 260 ---

his regular business as usual and does not bother with the account. At the end of a 
month or a few months, the broker's statements will show him how well he speculated 
in stocks and wheat or cotton during that time. Thus, he speculates with somebody 
else's knowledge and in fact, eliminates his own self. I know thousand of the richest 
people who employ such specialists and follow in the meanwhile their pleasures. You 
can do the same in a small or in a large way. The writer himself handles many such 
discretionary accounts. 
 
Of course, there is a certain group of natives who would not entertain any such idea. 
They are usually Geminis or Sagittarians; they crave for the excitement, for the kick 
they get out of speculation; whether they lose or win does not matter, it is the 
excitement they want. But others are interested more in the material advantage they 
obtain in that they make money with money. This type of trading also does away with 
the so-called "investors" who buy several stocks, and sit on them through bull and 
bear markets, who see their stock at 5 and 205; they just simply won't sell or take 
profit with a view of getting them back at lower levels. They do not realize that stocks 
are "made to sell" as we say in Wall Street. Others again have so-called "pets." 
Through clever write-ups in newspapers for the last several years, the aviation stocks 
and Radio have become such pets with the public. This is why they have not 
performed in proportion to others. It does not mean they are not worth what they sell 
for, because anything is worth just that much. I wish to remind you that the bear 
market low for Chrysler was the same as for UAF and the bear market low for Radio 
was the same as Montgomery Ward. Why did the public pick on poor little Radio and 
did not want to pet with Monkey? The answer is contained in the article above. 
 
 
 
 
- 48 -

--- PAGE 74 of 260 ---

Beneath the Stars 
An Astrological Causerie Conducted by Dr. W. M. Davidson 
 
Your Fortunate and Unfortunate Stocks 
 
IT IS always well, before investing in a particular company or stock, to see what 
inter-relationships exist between the positions of your natal planets and the positions 
of the planets in the Company horoscope. (A corporation's horoscope is calculated for 
the day of its incorporation, taking noon as the approximate time). 
 
The horoscope of a company is almost invariably fairly symbolic of the general trend 
of its affairs; a company supplying theaters revealing Leo strong, a company dealing 
in food-stuffs, Virgo prominent and so on. Now all investors, and especially active 
speculators, know that some stocks are always "lucky" for them just as certainly as 
other stocks are "unlucky." I knew a big operator on Wall Street for whom Mexican 
Pete was as faithful as a pet dog. Therefore in investing or speculating you should not 
only choose the proper field as indicated by your horoscope, but also even within the 
chosen group of stocks, be concerned only with those whose incorporation-date 
planetary positions are favorable to your own horoscope. 
 
I knew a wealthy capitalist in London, for example who, against my advice, invested 
heavily in an Egyptian Bank stock and lost badly in what seemed a safe venture. 
Neptune in the bank's horoscope was exactly opposite the investor's natal Sun. I 
remember also a Japanese company which I was consulted about by a wealthy 
investor. I said "the management is bad and most dishonest," and almost the next mail 
brought news of a bankruptcy and record of the fact that several of the Directors had 
committed suicide. Another mail, against my advice, invested in a closely held private 
corporation and later was badly squeezed. Saturn in the company chart was exactly on 
his natal Sun. 
 
Here then is a principle not usually observed in financial Astrology-—only invest in 
companies having horoscopes favorably related to your own; avoid especially 
companies whose evil planets afflict your own Sun or Moon, for you will certainly 
lose by connection with them. 
 
There is a further principle here of value to employees. Before seeking employment in 
any large corporation study its horoscope (incorporation date, noon) and be guided by 
its relationship to your own horoscope. You will find that employees who are usually 
successful in obtaining promotion are those who have their horoscopes favorably 
related to the companies' horoscopes. Once again this very practical science of 
Astrology helps you to success by the most definite and proven of principles. 
 
Which Rules Which? 
 
IT IS surprising how lacking in ability to discern the astrological rulership of many 
things, even advanced students of Astrology often are. It is equally surprising how 
many foolish rulerships are assigned to various matters and things. In my travels 
about the world I constantly asked professional astrologers I met certain questions and 
the answers I received were truly amazing. I considered myself in those days just an 
amateur and I expect the professional exponents to display a mastery it was soon 
 
- 49 -

--- PAGE 75 of 260 ---

evident few of them possessed. Take for example the rulership of "oil." There seems a 
pretty general idea that it is governed by Neptune. I suspect that some theoretic-
minded astrologer long ago recorded the idea and everyone else has unthinkingly 
copied it ever since. Now oil is very decidedly NOT ruled by Neptune and if you 
really know the basics of your astrology you will not need to be informed, but if you 
don't know, then just try to "reason it out" and next month I will tell you the answer 
and give you the reason. At the same time try to decide the rulerships of the following 
things, (2) eggs, (3) paper, (4) rayon, (5) wood and (6) glass. 
 
To know these things is very essential in deciding your own affairs and in advising 
others, and if you don't know the results can be tragic. I recently saw the horoscope of 
a man who had been advised to put his life savings info a filling station because "his 
horoscope was fortunate for oil." Presumably this was done on the basis of Neptune 
being well-placed in the man's horoscope well, it was most unfortunate because the 
native lost everything he had. Had the astrologer in question really understood the 
basic principles of Astrology he would never have fallen into such an error which 
severely damaged his reputation. Yet one sees this same rulership ascription floating 
around in the writings of various authors.— "Neptune rules oil," which is a-most 
decided error. 
 
Often the native has great possibilities in a given industry or line of activity and the 
astrologer who is not thoroughly informed will fail to advise his client and thus cause 
him to miss a splendid opportunity. 
 
Astrology and the Turf 
 
In my mail the other morning I found a letter from a man in a far western city offering 
me a wondrous key to successful turf prediction for a paltry ten dollars. Now it so 
happens that for a time. 1 gave considerable attention to an analysis of astrological 
indications of racing results and the method offered with much laudation was one I 
had previously run across and regarded as so unscientific as to be not even worth 
investigating. Apart from this, however, it should have been self-evident to the seller 
that no one possessing knowledge so dependable as this was claimed to be would 
have to hawk it around, nor be willing to part with it for a paltry ten dollars. 
 
It is curious, however, how little originality there exists in the elaborators of such 
systems and how rarely they have the virtue of being logical. The one in question for 
example consisted of talking the number of degrees which lie between the midheaven 
(of a chart for the time of the race) and the Moon and then dividing this by the number 
of runners in the race— the odd number left over indicating the probable winner of 
the race. Thus say the mid-heaven degree is 15 Cancer and the Moon is found in 24 
Virgo. The number of degrees existing between the mid-heaven and the Moon in this 
case is sixty-nine. Now if there be eight horses in the race, then 8 goes into 69 eight 
times, with 5 left over and this would indicate that the fifth horse on the program 
would win. Of course such a system must inevitably get a certain number of 
winners—but so would the shut-your-eyes-and prick-with-a-pin-system! There are 
quite a number of such methods being hawked around the country, even at fancy 
prices, most of them being incapable of withstanding the crucial test of daily use. 
There are quite a number of very suggestive principles which can be used and they are 
of much interest to the astrological scientist in that frequently they afford real insight 
 
- 50 -

--- PAGE 76 of 260 ---

into the underlying principles of astrology. One does not need to be interested in 
gambling to study turf astrology. As a matter of fact the date here involved being so 
definite and precise, constitutes virtually a laboratory where the stellar forces can be 
tested with great precision. 
 
As an example I might say that I have been able to prove by this means, beyond all 
doubt, that Pluto rules Scorpio. I have also been thus able to detect the play of hidden 
astrological forces in certain degrees of the zodiac and some rather revolutionary facts 
which I will refer to in later articles have been checked and double-checked by this 
very means. 
 
The chemist in dealing with certain delicate chemical complexes, such as the 
vitamins, for example, has to resort to animal experimentation as the only means of 
checking his theories. So in Astrology, in the fields of the market plate and the race-
course, where all the data is exact and there can be no alibis, we have a splendid 
means of testing and revealing the exact operation of various specific astrological 
forces. 
 
Next month I will endeavor to say more about this revealing subject and especially 
anent the reason why it is at all possible to predict the outcome, of such matters of 
"chance." Meantime I suggest for the student who is of au inquiring type of mind and 
who has patience and wants- a problem more fascinating than that of cross-word 
puzzles—cogitate the problem of the turf. How would you seek the answer to the 
result of a race in a horoscope thereof? What you evolve will reveal clearly whether 
you know the fundamentals of astrology or not. Let me conclude this paragraph. with 
a hint. If your system merely aims at giving you the winner you do not truly 
understand astrology. The law does not merely act to place a certain horse in the 
winning position. The laws of nature do not work in one little place and then "forget 
all about it" in another aspect—they act in all phases whatsoever. All the commoner 
systems in circulation, including one which sells in Europe for $500, merely seek to 
indicate the winner. Yet scientific astrology can reveal the exact order of every horse 
in the race. I know because I have seen it done. There is a valuable clue there if you 
can follow it up. 
 
Fortunate and Unfortunate Hours 
 
MANY STUDENTS, especially those whose businesses involve much hazard and a 
great deal of ebb-and-flowness, are interested in any method which will indicate not 
merely the general trend for the day but which will indicate even the detailed hours of 
the day. A method which I have used with much success and which I do not recall 
ever having seen described before is that which I havoc termed The Mundane Sun 
Hours. The idea is based on the fact that as the daily Sun swings through the houses, 
beginning with the cusp of the First at sunrise, and successively passing through the 
Twelfth, Eleventh, Tenth, Ninth houses and so on, effects a mundane conjunction 
with the planets in your natal houses and so stirs up the good and the bad effects 
thereof.. Thus if you happen to have Jupiter in the middle of the Eleventh house then 
somewhere about ten o'clock in the morning the Sun mundanely transits your Jupiter 
and so momentarily stimulates its benefits. On the other hand suppose you have 
Saturn just fifteen degrees away from the cusp of the Tenth, then at one hour before 
noon (allowing for the equation of time) the daily Sun will be mundanely transitting 
 
- 51 -

--- PAGE 77 of 260 ---

your natal Saturn; therefore this would be a most inauspicious moment to try to 
consummate some business deal. This transit happens every day no matter what sign 
the Sun is in. The influence operates over a period of, about fifteen minutes only and 
therefore should be calculated exactly. A very little practice will suffice for you to 
discern this minute hand of the planetary clock as it operates in your horoscope daily. 
In general it may be said—if you have your benefics between the Twelfth and the 
Tenth cusps then the hours between sunrise and noon contain your most opportune 
moments. If your benefics lie between the Tenth and the Seventh cusps then your best 
hours are afternoon. If your best planets lie in the northwest quadrant, between the 
Seventh and the Fourth cusps, then after sunset until midnight is your best time; but if 
your benefics are all situated between the Fourth and the First cusps, then you will 
have to be out with the milkman to catch your lucky hours. 
 
Can You Answer These Questions? 
 
WHY IS Pisces the sign of ability for the study and mastery of foreign languages?   
Following pure logic one would expect Mercury in Sagittarius, or some such 
combination, to be the indication. But it is not. Mercury in Pisces beyond all doubt 
shows linguistic ability. Can yon tell why this is so? If you can then yon have 
penetrated deeper into astrology than most of the so-called professional astrologers. 
If you cannot, try to think the matter out. The effort will do much to deepen your 
astrological insight and next month I will endeavor to show you a very revealing 
reason I will endeavor which explains to this and much more. But please do make the 
effort meantime. 
 
A further example of this celestial algebra is—what makes Cancer such  "contrary" 
sign? Look how many individuals having Mars in Cancer espouse unpopular 
movements, or combat popular ideas. Comprehension of the reason-why will bring 
you to the verge of one of the deepest mysteries of astrology. 
 
And, just to keep you busy till we come round again, “what are the indications of 
many marriages?” The text-books tell us that certain signs are "dual" signs, tending 
always to bring two-ness into things. What signs then reigned supreme in the 
horoscope of the Sultan of Turkey when he called the nightly role of his twenty-odd 
wives?   If certain signs cause two-ness, what signs produce three-ness and four-ness? 
 
Don't forget to drop me a line at the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago, if you have a 
problem of basic astrological interest you would like to see dealt with here. Also don't 
forget the horoscope of your home town you were to work out as described last 
month.   If it is interesting send it along. 
 
EDITOR'S NOTE--This article by Dr. W. M. Davidson is published as his findings in 
the various avenues of his research and students will note that in the articles to come 
great pains have been taken to explain some rather revolutionary facts. 
 
 
- 52 -

--- PAGE 78 of 260 ---

"I Beg Your Pardon" 
By George Bayer 
 
DR. W. M. DAVIDSON'S article in the January issue contains a bagful of 
information, many a valuable rule is hidden therein.   I believe such a column should 
be kept up for along time where frank discussions and criticism of ideas should be 
laid.  It is of no use to state once more the good things contained therein, the ones who 
know Astrology will see those themselves.   The items that are not quite correct 
should be rectified for the benefit of all readers.  Here is my share: 
 
The natal planets of a company horoscope, i.e., the horoscope erected for the day of 
the incorporation of a company, work perfectly when one is interested in the earnings 
and dividends which the company produces, on the orders they receive, on their sales? 
etc., but let it be known to all who trade in the stock of any company that it does not 
reflect in the price such stocks sell for on the Stock Exchange. The price of a stock is 
regulated on other laws. And you can easily detect this fact yourself when you realize 
that on a splendid earning statement or on a day a corporation receives a large order 
from some source, published in the papers all over the country, on the news-tickers, in 
board rooms, etc., that a specific stock takes a nosedive of ten points .to the 
consternation of all those who "expected" a 20 point advance on that good -news. The 
horoscope of the corporation on that day was splendid but the horoscope which rules 
its price (the price of the stock) was no good. 
 
As to the question: Which rules which? be it said that the Bible from beginning to the. 
very end tells you that there is not one ruler for one single thing, be it a man, an 
animal, a stock or what have you, but there are always two rulers. The rulers of 'the 
various things are so easily detected when the- law is known that an error is hardly 
possible. Just read it out of the Bible. We consult Deut. 28 and 29, where it tells you 
each-one separately. Lev. 11:3, Lev. 11:13, etc. contain other lists of things being 
ruled. Of course, it all is a matter of starting right and the string will run off just as if 
one unwinds a spool of thread. If one grasps once the idea that the Bible is loaded full 
with rules and laws and it is all there for the one who wants to take them and use 
them, then the biggest obstacle for astrologers is removed. 
 
As to the question: “Does Neptune rule oil?” I may say that it depends very. much 
upon the kind of oil that is meant by it. In my analytical work of commodities, I make 
peat use of Mr. Neptune to get the swings of Cottonseed oil. 
 
As to the question of racing charts to pick the winners, my opinion is: Just like the 
small speculator buys so-called options in wheat at Winnipeg, paying $5 each day, to 
get a chance on wheat jumping once every 250 or 300 days beyond the limit of his 
option there commitments being purely predicated on gambling instincts, the same is 
true with bettors on races. Astrology cannot help these men, even though 
unscrupulous astrologers try to tell the public that it can be done. It is very difficult to 
define major trends of movements such as the movements of business, of stock or 
wheat prices. If that was not true, the panic of 1929 would not have hit everyone. That 
the greatest brains of the country did not know we were at a bottom in 1932 is shown 
by the fact that far two solid months mid-May to mid-July, 1932, the total transactions 
in stocks did not amount to more in quantity than 10 days nor even 8 days of 
transactions amounted to from July 10 to. July 18, just one year later right at the peak. 
 
- 53 -

--- PAGE 79 of 260 ---

The same amount of money was available at both times. But nobody dared to invest at 
the lows for fear it might go to zero. They could not define the big major trend. 
 
TO DEFINE intermediate trends is much more difficult; by that I mean swings in the-
price structure that last from three weeks to three or four months. These are the 
swings that are really profitable. 
 
The so-called "jiggles" are the most difficult to catch when trading. They last from 
two; or, three days to a week or a little longer. They would be ultra-profitable if they 
could be caught. But most people trying for it, find themselves in a ditch before they 
are through trying even halfways. 
 
The hourly motions in stocks or, wheat are absolutely out of the question to be located 
and are mere guesses for anyone. These movements; however, are the ones the 
newcomer in the market are shooting for. They have-to get burnt first very severely to 
find out that they cannot be had. 
 
Now, here comes the raceman. He tries for still minute cycles than the hourly 
movements of stocks or cotton. He wants to get something done to a second and 10 or 
12 horses are to be segregated and each one analyzed as to his response at a certain 
second... Not only this, a minute up or down in the start of a race they assume does 
not make any difference. An English writer has published some of the laws he uses 
and, oh, wow, just try if with your own money and find out how long it lasts to be rid 
of it. 
 
Remember: the big major cycles are a puzzle even to the governments who have all: 
money available to find the laws of only the major cycles and you try to find the laws 
of cycles that comprise one single second and make money with it? 
 
Although I am able to use quite a few languages myself, having Mercury in. Taurus 
though, I shall try to give biblical interpretation of the law; why are people with 
Mercury in Pisces linguists? 
 
This explanation I only can make by comparison inasmuch as my work is solely 
confined to use Astrology in market movements and in the interpretation of the Bible. 
 
Mercury, whose home, according to the Bible, is in Capricorn, and not in Virgo or 
Gemini as books try to tell, and who is represented in the Bible by Rebecca, the wife 
of Jacob, ends its cycle each year at 30 degrees Pisces in most cases. A cycle as I 
understand from the Bible is not comprising an up and down movement, but a 
movement that begins slowly, accelerates and keeps on accelerating until it ends; 
suddenly at the end no more, death. We know that the faster a planet moves the better 
it is. It carries within itself a lot of pep. Mercury, the planet of intelligence, versatility 
and thought, has its greatest cycle speed in Pisces and a native whose Mercury is in 
Pisces should grasp languages, i.e., retain thousands of words without difficulty—if—
it happens to be in the Rebecca cycle. But, it is possible that his birth is not in the 
Rebecca cycle that is that she does not die that year, this person will do just the 
opposite; he will not be able to learn rapidly at all and to study languages is out of the 
question. 
 
- 54 -

--- PAGE 80 of 260 ---

The comparison may be had looking over the movements of stocks, of wheat and 
other commodities and we shall find that March, at the time Mercury is nearly always 
in Pisces, the movements are very swift and important bottoms and tops are made at 
that time. We make more tops and bottoms in March than in any other month of the 
year. This is due to Mercury, ending its cycle either as a bottoms or as a top. Much 
more could be said in this respect, but a lot of underlying biblical laws would have to 
be generally understood first before it could be understood. 
 
I believe that constructive criticism makes the world a better place to help each other. 
 
EDITOR'S NOTE—Conclusive evidence as proof of correct methods in practice are, 
for those only who have specialized in specifically chosen fields of endeavor. Many 
times you will find in our pages, two—-and perhaps more—angles to the same 
question—for we believe that students of the science will study deeper, question more 
the accepted and, finally decide for themselves what they in their minds and 
endeavors deem to be correct. Our hats are off to those noble astrologers who are 
willing for the sake of education to come out in the open and explain their views. 
 
 
- 55 -

--- PAGE 81 of 260 ---

Forecasts for Stocks, Wheat and Cotton 
Notes to Traders for February, 1937 By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the ups and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St, 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
THE more we think of the great fluctuations the various commodities have had during 
the months of November and December last year, the more they remind us of the old 
fashioned markets back around the turn of the Century, when very few people traded 
in the market except the very rich and the banks. At that time the public was not 
educated through clever advertising, to buy and sell stocks. There were only some 40 
or 50 stocks listed then. The fluctuations during these periods were very wicked and 
he who was on the right ride of the market should have cashed in some sweet profits. 
The trend was usually just one way, either up or down, just the same, one ran into 
long wearysome sidewise movements, that lasted four, five and more months, when 
stocks like, Central, New Haven, the old favorites, did not sell for a whole week at 
times. Suddenly an aspect brought them to life and the movement began in earnest 
once more, either for a big bull move or for a bear movement, depending upon the 
sort of aspect that hit them. Thus, we may notice, that the market 30 and 40 years ago 
was not as sensitive as it is now. Minor aspects did not disturb the equilibrium at all. 
A minor aspect might have caused a sale of a hundred share lot by someone, to just 
fall asleep once more after the aspect passed. At this period, however, when millions 
of people attempt to make a dollar with stocks, the market is very sensitive towards 
aspects. We can see this clearly when we just check back a single week. We find 
sharp rallies, sharp declines, quietness one day, thunder and lightning the next. 
However, underground, the market moves in the main direction just the same, the 
direction that is indicated by the big important aspects, the same as it did formerly. 
The danger that traders face nowadays lies in grasping the main trend. Those who try 
to catch daily swings will lose their money should it even take a little time to bring it 
about. 
 
But I am not going to tell much about stocks at present. I will attempt to tell the story 
of commodities. They act at this period like stocks did many years ago. Very few 
people trade in them. They do not know that there is even such a thing as a 
commodity. They know that the butcher sells a pound of lard for 28c and that a box of 
cocoa is worth a dime. It would not enter their mind that hides as a commodity could 
be traded the same .as stocks are, but instead of buying a hundred shares they simply 
buy 40,000 lbs. of hides or sell them as the case may be. But the people ought to 
know about that. It is in those commodities where 'big profits can be made at this 
period, provided one knows the trend. The trend of commodities is either up or down 
if once started in a direction is going a long time in that direction.   Let  
 
 
- 56 -

--- PAGE 82 of 260 ---

us look at wheat, or rye. Last May, we found that big bottom when a 30c upmove 
occurred; after a side-wise movement, prices started up once more late this fall. 
However, this is not all yet. Calculations show that we should have even two more 
such upswings before the movement is over when prices change from up to down. 
Rye went begging around 50c a bushel; and at time of this writing, everyone wants it 
at $1.10, or just double the price. How much profit was there made in one year in rye 
on one contract (5000 bushels) which required a capital of $500? Each single cent 
advance meant a $50 profit; 50c advance meant just 50 times $50 or $2500 besides 
the capital. I ask anyone who has traded in stocks, even though he had the best stocks 
on the board, if he could have made with $500 the sum of $2500. And this does not 
take into consideration any trading whatever. If a few trades would have been made in 
between, the sum would have been much more, and when we consider that one would 
have bottom some more rye as he gathered profits with the additional motley 
available, the sun1 could have been easily doubled including due consideratio11 of 
the risk of a reaction, so that safety was of prime importance. 
 
THE same facts you can deduct from each and every other commodity traded on some 
exchange, silk, rubber, cotton, corn, sugar, coffee, cottonseed oil, lard, hides, barley, 
oats, wheat, flaxseed, they all had very large appreciation in value. 
 
It is my opinion, based on my astrological work that stocks are at a top around the 5th 
of this month, and even though they should come back to nearly the same level in 
March, possibly make a little higher than on the 5th, finally as the year goes on we 
should get into a baby bear market in them, which should bring the averages down to 
the 140 level Dow Jones Industrials. 
 
The explanation for it in terms other than astrological is this: The corporations are 
disbursing more of the profits as they make them to satisfy the government as well as 
the stockholders, At the same time Labor will also try to get its share of these profits 
and finally they will get increased wages, money that they will spend; the 
corporations, however, will find that their raw materials will cost them more und 
more, and all these things combined will bring about actual decreased earnings 
(because they have to spend too much) and stock values should consequently decline, 
at least, have a healthy reaction after a solid uninterrupted rise since the bank holiday 
 
- 57 -

--- PAGE 83 of 260 ---

in March, 1933. After this readjustment is out of the way, we can nicely turn around 
and then go much higher than where we find ourselves at the present time. 
 
 
 
Therefore, it is time to take in the sails in stocks, to dispose of them and let the other 
fellow have them and make him happy. But, what is to be done with the idle money? 
The answer is simply this: Buy commodities with your money; help the farmer by 
taking the goods off his hands so that he can grow more later, which will then bring 
about enough supply to stop the advance in a year or so. In the meantime you 
accumulate profits by having them. 
 
Of course, the month of February is not the time to buy stocks. It actually is the time 
to sell. Everything points downward for reactions, stocks. The peak should be made 
the first five days of the month and a turn is indicated only between the 25th and 26th 
of the month for a sharp comeback. This comeback encompasses everything. The 
former should only come up to complete the last phase of their cycle that began 
February 27, 1933, while cotton should with the other commodities begin with a real 
to goodness bull movement such as we have not witnessed since the time of 1918 and 
1919. This does not imply that wheat shall have to go to. $2.60, but it should move up 
same additional 25 cents or even more, while cotton shows from astrological 
calculations that it could add a couple of hundred points and think nothing of it. It did 
so in the previous cycle and the previous cycle usually tells the story. 
 
AS TO persons who have never traded and who know nothing about the procedure, be 
it said that, while trading is profitable when you are right in the trend, there are many 
pitfalls facing you, the most important one being overtrading, i.e., taking more than 
your fund allows, in order to make money fast. The speed devil is constantly behind 
you (just ask your conscience!) to find the quickest, best, swiftest medium to increase 
your funds, while usually the golden middle way, safety, is more urgently needed than 
speed. Patience, calm and funds are the three aces that insure safety. No rash action, 
no complaint when your stock or your wheat does not move, because usually when 
you get tired and sell, then the move comes. 
 
Of course, if you had been watching stocks, wheat, cotton and other commodities for 
some eighteen years every day, checked carefully the planetary aspects that make 
them sick and the others that bring them back to health you would not mind at times 
to wait for a few months and find that due to your waiting your fund has just doubled. 
The great unknown of the morrow is the cause of your lack of calm. An aspect cannot 
work until its time comes, whether you or somebody else wants it to come much 
sooner. The alarm clock rings at 7.05 A.M., and you are convinced from experience 
that it will no: ring an hour sooner. The secret lies in the jibing of the wheel that is 
 
- 58 -

--- PAGE 84 of 260 ---

timed to just give you that effect. The wheels of the Universe, our planets, are going 
their speed as prescribed. This was discovered long ago and it is figured to the 
hundredths of a second by great astronomers who are interested in that. We borrow 
their calculations and figure through repetition of cycles when stocks, wheat or cotton 
have to move up or when they have to move down. You had in this magazine for 
several months forecasts of wheat and of stock prices together with charts. Even 
though the forecast was not 100% correct, a claim we never can make, you must have 
discovered that, when following it, you have made money. A close-range forecast 
issued each week for stocks, wheat, cotton and other commodities would still have 
been better and it would have given close price levels at which to buy and sell as well 
as individual stocks. But it is not possible to supply such details in our monthly issue. 
They may be had if one is interested. 
 
To come back to what should occur in the market during the month of February. My 
astrological analysis shows a top for stocks between the 4th and 5th, a bottom 
between the 25th and 26th of the month. Cotton should move sidewise with somewhat 
lower tendencies. Sell stocks between the 4th and the 5th, buy long between the 25th 
and 26th. 
 
The movement for wheat during the month of February is contrary to the movement 
of stocks. We should begin with a strong upward movement during the last few days 
of January and have a steady climb upward until the 29th, with a little dip the rest of 
the month, The previous cycle shows a rise of fully 15 cents from January 25th to 
February 25th. This statement must not be construed that we shall again have exactly 
a 15-cent rise. It may be so, but the reader should interest it not in dollars and cents, 
but in time. Time is more important than price. Should wheat only move up 5 or 6 
cents during that time it would be nice, if it moves more, so much the better. These 
statements are purely based on astrological work. I mention this purposely, because as 
I write this, a case comes in my mind that happened two days ago (December 14, 
1936). It should be instructive to all traders: December 14, 1936 we had the straight 8-
cent rise in rye and a 7-cent rise in December wheat. After the close of the market I 
asked the "grain specialist" employed at several thousand dollars per year by a stock 
and wheat house: "What made that rye and wheat jump up like this today?" He 
answered me: "Poland does not ship any more rye to us and Germany needs a million 
bushels of wheat from us!' DO you think that Germany is so foolish to broadcast her 
need? Do you think that we depend upon little Poland for our supply in rye? This is 
the information the so-called "customers men" have to deliver for their clients ... If he 
would have said: "The 30 degree angle between Jupiter and Venus was the cause," 
there would have been some sense to it. 
 
I mould buy wheat at the beginning 'of the month and sell it towards the end of it. 
 
- 59 -

--- PAGE 85 of 260 ---

Forecasts for Stocks, Wheat and Cotton 
Notes to Traders for March, 1937 By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the ups and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking he past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
DID it ever occur to you that it requires n lot of self-confidence and courage to write 
about events in movements of stocks and commodities due to happen a few months 
later? Of course, when we consider that all novices in any kind of work think "it is 
easy," then it may seem to be so. However, as we gather experience in life, in our 
undertakings, we find out that the further we penetrate into a subject the more we 
realize how little we actually know. This whole statement hinges on a letter from one 
of my subscribers to my close-range weekly analysis of stocks and commodities who, 
after receiving this advice for nearly two months writes me from San Francisco: 
 
"So far I have not done any trading in the stock and commodity markets and do not 
understand any of the phrases used, such as "to put out short lines on strength" and 
"dispose of long stocks" at the same time.—Short position;—selling on strength—
"take a moderate short position"—"a gap upward”—"placing a stop." 
 
"In some of your market analyses you have these abbreviations: BS, C, AR, EL, SW. 
What do they stand for?" 
 
"I know that my banker and also my broker think I have softening of the brain for 
wanting to speculate in commodities, because they. certainly tried to discourage me, 
but after debating with myself for some time, I bought a contract of cotton." 
 
I believe it is quite proper to bring forth to the readers of the general forecasts on 
stocks and commodities that follows hereafter a few thoughts that came into my mind 
due to this letter. 
 
A good many of the readers would like to take some risk to trade in stocks and 
commodities, provided the risk was small. In each and every venture, some risk must 
be taken. There is no "sure tiling." If you open a business somewhere, you risk that 
someone else opens the same type of business right next door to you a week later and 
you can do nothing about it. You may buy an "exclusive" sample coat and find out a 
week later that there are hundreds of people walking in the streets with the same 
"sample" coat. 
 
The first step for newcomers into the field of speculation is to find out the rules and 
regulations, to look over the field in general. There are hundreds of books available on 
this subject. Most of them are good enough to obtain an idea.* 
 
Brokers usually- have pamphlets and booklets on hand that may be had on request 
with a view that the enquirer will do trading with their firm when ready.** 
 
 
- 60 -

--- PAGE 86 of 260 ---

The second step to take is to know how much money is required to trade whatever 
you wish to trade in. For example, to trade in most of the commodities it takes about 
S500 to $600. In Oats, the requirement are about $350, while in copper, the 
requirements are about $1000—to carry one contract. 
 
As you begin trading, you must make up your mind immediately that you intend to do 
no gambling, buying and selling at will, or just for a few points. This would bring 
serious losses in a short time and your funds would disappear soon. You should begin 
with the idea in your mind to just get a little better than 6% return on your money or 
on an investment of $600 you should be satisfied to make a profit of "over" $36 in 
one year. If it then happens that you double your funds in three months or in six 
months, you must consider this just "so much better." Do not get upset if this does 
happen, because it is likely to happen that some time you may have to take a loss 
which cuts into profits quickly and by the end of one year your net gain could turn out 
to be even less than it was during the first six months. 
 
Coming back to the letter, it must be said that to trade you have to know the language 
that is used. When in Italy you are supposed to talk Italian. The abbreviations are used 
by the Stock Exchange to name the various stocks; each stock has such an 
abbreviation. The stock of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad is abbreviated 
by "ST" for example, United States Steel by "X", etc. It does not take long to catch on 
to that. 
 
THE idea conveyed in the letter about banker and broker just indicates how afraid 
both banker and broker are of commodities.   Why? Because they have strange 
movements; one moves up for three months and another one moves down during 
these same three months and neither banker nor broker can give any explanation for 
it, they just don't know.  
 
 
 
They rather see you buy stocks, because at least, if they decline, you still have the 
stocks. With commodities, they are afraid that for want of experience on your part you 
might find one nice day a hundred bales of cotton in your front yard or possibly 
40,000 lbs. of hides ... It must be remembered that you trade in options only when 
trading in commodities which just means that, unless you sell before the date your 
option expires, you expect delivery of the goods. 
 
- 61 -

--- PAGE 87 of 260 ---

Stock or commodity forecasts brought in this magazine are not intended for use of 
readers who have absolutely no knowledge of trading. Anyone who is not equipped 
with at least some experience and who just steps into the market takes risk that may 
be compared to giving children some sticks of dynamite and a box of, matches. 
 
This statement is made for all those readers who cannot afford to lose. Hard-earned 
moneys very seldom increase at great speed. 
 
 
 
In last month's issue I explained in the article, "I Beg Your Pardon," that most tops 
and bottoms in stocks and commodities are made in March. This year the markets 
should make a top in March and the time is ripe to sell. 
 
Stocks should make two tops this month, one on the 5th of the month and the other 
from the 22d to 24th of March. Both tops should turn out to be about at-the same 
levels in the averages. These two dates should represent the extreme high levels which 
stocks are going to make this year. They may exceed the highs of February 4 and 5, 
somewhat, but not much. Whatever may be the external cause that should bring the 
tops at these two dates is of little import to traders. It may turn out to be events of a 
far-reaching nature later on because the astrological analysis points downward from 
then on until we reach November 28. 1937. That we should have rallies between these 
dates is obvious: however, the rallies should always turn out to be smaller than the 
preceding declines, bringing slowly, but surely, lower levels, until enough overweight 
is established to precipitate for about two months serious liquidation of discouraged 
holders of stocks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 62 -

--- PAGE 88 of 260 ---

Traders who are not close to the market or those 
 
 
 
who do not for one reason or other wish to get in touch with the writer for closer 
guidance, should make it their main aim this month to liquidate all their long stocks, 
good stocks, bad stocks, doggies and pets during strength and assume conservative 
short positions in those stocks, that do not participate in the advance of early March, 
but which made their high prices; in early February. These positions should be carried 
into early April. The adjoining chart should give the approximate picture of what is 
astrologically expected of stocks this month. 
 
Wheat after the fast rise during February is also getting itself into difficulties as soon 
as the month begins, but it should stubbornly refuse to give much way except to. 
normal reactions at high levels which could amount to six or even as ,far as ten cents, 
always trying to improve the highs. Distribution is going on full, swing and the public 
wakes up to the fact now that wheat "looks good." It had a rise from around 80 cents 
since early June, 1936, at which time it was said in newspaper reports that the 
Canadian government had over 3,000,000 bushels of excess wheat. Nobody dared to 
buy it at that time. Now, because it has: nearly doubled in price, it "looks good" and 
they dare to buy it—at the top. 
 
The most critical days for wheat falls between March 22 and 23, and it is apt to bring: 
about a "gap down," followed by a sharp decline that should stop again on the 28th of 
the month, when it renewed comeback is scheduled planetarily. These five or six days' 
decline should turn out to be the worst five or six days we may see the entire year. 
 
CAREFUL "scalping" should be indulged in during the first 22 days of the month in 
wheat, with a good short position to be taken finally on the last run up either on the 
22d or 23d of the month, which should be cohered on the 28th, and a long position 
resumed into the month of April. The decline may bring us down to the levels of late 
December, 1936. 
 
 
 
 
- 63 -

--- PAGE 89 of 260 ---

Additional work on the study of cotton movement for the month of February has 
revealed that the chart printed in last month's issue is not bullish enough. It should 
have been drawn waving upward instead of sidewise, because of the stagnancy we are 
experiencing in cotton at the present time (January 14), indicates that it is just 
marking time and getting ready for a move in the very near future. Fortunately the 
issue appears about two weeks before we reach the month, traders in cotton still can 
avail themselves- of this information, by buying cotton in mid-February yet, so as to 
ride in it upwards clear over to March 22 to 23, and liquidate then on strength, only to 
buy it back on the 28th of the month. The substantial advance in cotton prices 
throughout nearly the entire year as prognosticated some time ago requires no 
revision, subject, of course to normal, natural reactions. 
 
One situation is worth noting. South America is favored this whole year and even next 
year with unusually good aspects. Business down in South America should flourish 
and therefore all the bonds of South American Republics that are traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange should gradually improve and they are all worth buying and 
holding and they should not be affected at all by the anticipated decline in stocks later 
in the year. The same is true with products grown in South America, among which we 
have coffee as prime commodity. Coffee should be bought from here on and held in 
late options. It may have a similar sensational movement as we witnessed late last Fall 
in cocoa. A stock that is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, American &. 
Foreign Power (AFW) should again become a leader and move completely against the 
normal trend and therefore this stock, whether common or preferred is not a short sale 
this year. Its largest interest is in South America. 
 
*You may address the writer for the name of a good book on this subject. 
 
** Prentice & Brady. 25 Broadway, New York City, send out upon request a fine 
book on Commodity trading without charge to you. 
 
 
- 64 -

--- PAGE 90 of 260 ---

Forecasts for Stocks, Wheat and Cotton 
Notes to Traders for April, 1937 By George Bayer 
 
WHEN I look at the picture of the stock market as Astrology indicates it should 
appear this Spring, I can see a big Scorpio glaring at me. It most likely never occurred 
to you that in the movements of markets the actual signs of the Zodiac appear in the 
form as we use them abbreviated today, sometimes in the form (abbreviations) as used 
by the ancient Egyptians. You can see Sagittarius in the cotton movements from 
March to July, last year, even the dash is not missing. You can recognize the sign of 
Libra in wheat last Spring, followed also by a small Sagittarius that wound up into a 
Virgo sign in Midsummer and Fall. 
 
The stock market just now is forming the two legs of the sign Scorpio. When it is 
completed we naturally have to get its "sting" and the "hook" at the end. But, there is 
still a little while, until the "formation" gets that far. 
 
If we should know more about Astrology, we could read from anybody's face or of 
the structure of each limb, the exact positions of his planets without requiring the 
construction of a horoscope or a rectification of- the birth time. 
 
The other day, passing through the mountains of Nevada, I had nothing to do but 
watch the formations of the low hills, loaded with snow. The contours were very well 
denned and I noticed a steadily repeating formation from one hill to the next. Mind 
you, some were large, others were small, but the formation was the same.  
 
 
 
It looked like that part of the orange where you find the little green spot, somewhat 
shriveled. Imagine a small stream running downward (see Fig. 1), 1 (my train was 
from two to three miles distant from the objects analyzed herewith).  
 
- 65 -

--- PAGE 91 of 260 ---

Another smaller one running down from 2. Streams 1 and 2 met closely at No. 3 of 
the figure. On the left, No. 4 was a well-defined, round hill and to the right of stream 
No. 2 was an elongated hill alongside the small stream No. 2. At No. 6 of our figure, 
the picture seems to have terminated. That regular repetition of the same formation, 
except as to size was something to think about. Note, that this formation was visible 
as the picture shows when coming from New York going to San Francisco, with the 
round hill constantly on the San Francisco side, but never in the opposite position. 
The elongated hill was constantly towards New York. The rivulets came from the 
north. On the south side (looking towards Mexico) these formations could not be 
seen. 
 
I recalled immediately from the Bible, Genesis 14, verses 3 and 10. Therein it states 
clearly that sign of Virgo represents stones, hills and mountains, as well as the Salt 
sea. We were not very far away from the Great Salt Lake in Utah. While riding along 
I tried to copy several of these pictures as shown on the hills and each one had the 
same shape, form and proportion. Afterwards, I tried to make the form of the Zodiacal 
sign of Virgo out of it. Fig. 2 below shows how my imagination worked. I inserted 
corresponding numbers to match the numbers of the original figure so that a careful 
comparison can be made with both. One has to use a little bit of imagination of 
course. 
We find that both No. 4 are equal and mark the beginning of the Virgo sign, the round 
hill at the left. (Students of Hebrew Astrology, please note that the writing is from left 
to right, respectively from West to East! !) The rivulet that comes down from the hill 
represents our second "leg" of Virgo, although it is too high, due to its coming down 
from the top of the mountain. However, it represents both times the middle, the 
center. The third interlaced stroke of the sign of Virgo may also be seen in No. 2 in 
both drawings, only in nature it is incomplete. The loop of the sign of Virgo (No. 5) 
corresponds to our elongated hill at the right side. 
 
It must be noted that there is no water flowing around the hill marked No. 4. Waters 
only flow through No. 1 and No. 2, which meet in the vicinity of mark No. 3. 
 
There you have a naturally engraved form, if one can read it. These formations are not 
subject to change for very long eras while the formations in stock or commodity 
pictures (the cycles) are of actually measurable lengths. The difficulty with markets is 
found in the "seemingly" incoherent sequence of the signs from one cycle to the other. 
We may find that an Aries is followed by a Taurus, then the Taurus by a Cancer (see 
cotton daily high and low chart from July 10, 1936 to November 25, 1936, where Mr. 
Cancer has formed itself marvelously). That time, in order to form the "other snail," 
cotton jumped up a hundred points in one day and then formed the "snail" downward 
for two months. 
 
After the formation of Cancer, we may suddenly get an Aquarius picture, or a Libra 
picture. The order is absolutely correct and Nature does not make a mistake. The 
writers of the Bible have laid down definite rules on how this "jumping process" goes 
on. But it is rather difficult to unearth it. The sequence of these jumps from one sign 
to another unknown sign keep up for long times, when suddenly you find a repetition 
to happen, many years later. Once you have found the repetition, it is not hard to be 
able to find all the future jumps, one after the other. 
 
 
- 66 -

--- PAGE 92 of 260 ---

However, as far as instruction is concerned, remember: Each formation represents a 
Zodiacal sign, the long swings as well as the intermediate or the minor swings and if 
you can detect it in advance, you just laugh at a Scorpio as it approaches. Just 
remember what size "sting" it has and abide your time until it is completed. You also 
know that the "sting" leads downward in the Scorpio and not upward. Be very careful 
when an Aries is made! Its form is usually just upside down, with the right horn 
leading up and the left horn leading down again. We had one of these in Auburn back 
in June, 1932, when the market was down at the bottom. This stock however, rose 
from 34 in three days to 76, and it did not take long to be back where it had started. 
This was an Aries move. Lard and Cottonseed oil had one of these Aries moves in 
1935, in the Summer. 
 
All this above should be considered as the introduction to the main subject, what are 
the markets going to do during the month of April, 1937? 
 
AT THE time of this writing, January 25, 1937, we are just approaching in the figure 
of the Zodiacal sign Scorpio (see picture) the part marked No. 1. We should reach this 
around February 4 or 5. No. 1a should be reached about February 25,  1937; No. 2 
should be reached on March 23, and No. 2a on April 3, followed by No. 3, the last 
bulge before we are ready for the "sting." By the time this magazine will reach you 
several parts of Mr. Scorpio should have been formed and when you see that around 
April 2 or 3, the stock market looks sickly and discouraging to the eyes, go right at it 
and buy stocks once more because Scorpio has three hills and we should therefore 
make hill No. 3. This hill formation should require practically the entire month, even 
a day or two of the month of May. However, bear in mind that the period of April 16, 
onward, the market should be moving sidewise, i.e., internally changing from upward 
to downward, unvisibly to the onlooker. Prices most likely should stay below the high 
levels registered during March. 
 
The general formation of what I expect astrologically of stocks for the month of April 
is shown on the graph. 
 
Cotton as well as wheat are, of course, in entirely different cycles and do not move 
with stocks. 
 
Wheat, after the sharp decline towards the end of March should come back fairly well 
until the 9th of the month, and move practically sidewise from then on until the 24th. 
At that time we m-.y expect another "pull-up" into higher regions, with a top indicated 
for the 28th. However, the April prices should not reach anywhere near the March 
highs. In case wheat refuses to improve the high of April 9 or thereabouts towards the 
end of the month, do not be stubborn and say: "it must," because its shown. There is 
no "must," we know too little to be too positive. Would not have long wheat after 
April 28. 
 
Cotton should have declined with all other commodities the last v/eek of March, but it 
is in a much better position than any of the commodities to come back and better its 
levels. April 1 to 13, point upward and it may be possible that we even come back in 
cotton to the March highs by that time. After the 13th, however, the best we can 
expect is a sidewise movement with slightly lower levels. Like the month of January, 
such a market is discouraging to say the least and it may be even advisable to let 
 
- 67 -

--- PAGE 93 of 260 ---

someone else hold cotton after April 13, or thereabouts for the rest of the month. This 
even applies to all other markets which were analyzed above. 
 
 
 
- 68 -

--- PAGE 94 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for May, 1937 
By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the tips and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
All actions taken by readers on the comments given here are made at their own risk, 
this being merely an opinion of what Astrological Law indicates "should happen." 
 
DURING this month persons with a strong Saturn influence should make nice profits 
in nearly all markets. The Jupiter people however, should not fare so well; they 
always watch the balloon inflate to make a trip into the stratosphere, never thinking 
that those ballooning up into it cannot remain there forever, but, of necessity, have to 
come back to earth again. 
 
We have had a rise that started five years ago from practically nothing and, while it is 
my opinion that we do not go into a serious bear market as yet, we should get into 
important reactions that, when completed and viewed in picture form later on, may 
look like a nice baby bear market. 
 
Since the January issue and subsequently in every issue that followed I have "tooted 
the horn" about the 198 level of Dow Jones to become a top. This level was given by 
me already more than two years ago when we still were way down, when Steel was 
playing around 31 and Chrysler was chasing it. At that time traders did not believe it, 
in fact, they believed it just as little as they believe at this time that we should turn 
about face. But the world simply moves that way and nothing can be done about it. 
"We all know that very few people are rich or become rich through their own efforts. 
As soon as they begin to accumulate some sizable sum of money, something, 
somehow, somewhere, comes along and takes it away again, usually faster than they 
acquired it. A good many people have been fortunate enough to buy stocks rather low. 
They count their paper profits by the hour, happy as a lark just yet. They cannot see a 
storm brewing that starts with a small drizzle, but may end with "Donner and 
Blitzen." The Scorpio I told you of last month has a sting; we should get this sting in 
stocks during the entire month. 
 
There is no movement as painful and wicked as a so-called "slide," which represents 
the astrological sign of Scorpio. The usual procedure o' it (the development) is this; 
the market near the top becomes quiet (the quiet before the storm). Gradually, prices 
move lower. Bull traders assume it is a small reaction to be followed by higher prices 
again (inasmuch as 98% of the traders are bullishly inclined as far as my experience 
has shown).   The next day, however, we go again a little lower, also the day 
following. Traders gradually decide in their mind that things cannot go on like that, 
because that "never happened yet" (they simply do not check back far enough to see 
that it happens at well defined intervals). They say to themselves: We must get that 
turn upward tomorrow. Unfortunately, we then make a gap downward the following 
day. Due to the fact that they know nothing about the meaning of a gap (my book 
"Time Factors," gives a whole chapter of rules on gaps, their meaning and use when 
 
- 69 -

--- PAGE 95 of 260 ---

trading wheat, cotton or anything else), they just keep on hoping. This goes on for 
several days and day after day we just lose a little bit, which, when added together, 
amounts to a sizable number of points. 
 
 
 
GRADUALLY they sit up and take notice that it appears to be a decline, but then we 
are down so far already "that it does not pay to do something about it now" and they 
keep on holding. -We still go lower. But, as Astronomy discloses, the movements of 
planets around the Sun are the fastest when the planet comes closest to the Sun and is 
the slowest when it is furthest away, we just use this idea and apply it to stocks. 
Taking the sign of Scorpio, and looking at the sting, we note that it developed within 
the third part of the m (see Fig: 1). At that point, the planet is furthest away from the 
Sun (Fig. 2). Therefore, the movement is slowest at this place, i.e., as we make the 
"bend-over." As the planet begins to move toward the Sun, its motion becomes faster, 
being drawn towards the Sun and the closer it gets, the faster its movement, until such 
time as it passes the Sun to go the other way once more. Therefore, as we decline, we 
have to increase in speed if our astronomical rules are applicable to stock movements 
(which our so-called economists and statisticians for want of knowledge of that matter 
simply claim to be "impossible"). Finally, we reach such a stage when the movement 
downhill is so fast that the "train" apparently gets derailed and that is then the end of 
the decline. But, a lot of traders that were aboard the train, loaded with stocks should 
also have experienced unpleasant feelings, as the speed of decline became too fast for 
them they began to "jump" throwing all their previous judgments, thoughts and ideas 
overboard. The closer we get to the end of such a decline, the more stocks are sold by 
unfortunate Jupiterians. They suddenly conclude: "Save what can be saved." This is 
then the end. They are out and stocks mockingly turn around and rise again. Of 
course, we must not overlook the other side. The so-called bears, i.e., those who sell 
the market short expecting to see lower prices should get their inning on such a 
decline. They sell at or near a top and buy at or near the bottom what they have sold 
previously, a simple operation, just the reverse of first buying and then selling, i.e., 
expecting higher prices. 
 
 
 
- 70 -

--- PAGE 96 of 260 ---

But they are usually Saturn people as I stated already. Saturn is the planet of 
destruction; he enjoys seeing ruins, panics, debacles and the like. He usually is not 
satisfied with half ruins, small panics; he expects a thorough job. Therefore, 
supposing he sold the market short on the top, as it declines he keeps on selling more 
until we get near a bottom. At that time Saturnian influence becomes so powerful that 
he thinks prices are definitely headed for the zero mark. He sells most stocks short 
right at the very bottom and is "caught short." 
 
When the market rises again, he apparently gets the same feeling as the Jupiter man 
had at the top when stocks moved down. He says, it is only a meaningless rally. He 
holds his short positions; but we keep on rising; he stays short stubbornly. But as we 
keep on going upward, he gradually gets scared and begins to cover, that is he buys 
back the stocks he sold at the bottom to make delivery on them. On the other hand, 
the Jupiter men begin to hope again for higher prices, too, and both types, therefore, 
begin with buying operations which condition drives prices up sharply near the end of 
an upward movement. Thereby we use again our astronomical law as we did 
previously, that the faster moves occur near tops and near bottom. 
 
Just remember how long it took steel to crawl from 22 to 34; how long it took from 34 
to 52; from 52 to 80, and that it took but about three weeks to move it from 90 to 126. 
Can you see the law? Note how long it took to distribute stocks in 1929 and all the 
gains were wiped out inside of one month. 
 
THE stock market during the month of May, according to astrological laws is bearish 
from beginning to end. Very small in-between rallies are indicated. Long positions 
should be liquidated as we enter the month and no buying should be done during May. 
This is the shortest analysis for stocks that I have had for a long time, just as short as 
my wheat forecast was for December last year, when I said: we should go from the 
beginning to. the end of December. You might recall it and you know what did 
happen to wheat that time. This December analysis was not made for wheat on rain or 
snow, on government surplus or on laws of supply and demand. It was made 
calculating planetary movements as they influence the "being" called wheat market. 
Upon the same laws the present forecast is made for stocks, using the proper cycle for 
it. 
 
FORECAST FOR WHEAT 
 
Wheat shows a similar movement during the month of May as stocks do. Wheat 
should be sold as we enter May and not bought during the entire month. A minor rally 
is indicated from May 9 to May 19, which may turn out to be a sidewise movement. 
 
FORECAST FOR COTTON 
 
Cotton shows a declining tendency all during May, but the picture as I can see it 
should be similar to the movement we had in January and most of February this year. 
It should prove to be a period where reac cumulation at higher levels occurs, so as to 
get ready later to begin a new rise to much higher levels. 
 
 
 
 
- 71 -

--- PAGE 97 of 260 ---

FORECAST FOR LARD, BUTTER AND COTTONSEED OIL 
 
These three commodities have been in a down trend for quite some time and as we go 
lower they should increase in speed downward and make a bottom between May 20 
and May 29, at which time they should be bought for the resumption of the rise. 
Suggest not to try to buy them before the indicated time. 
 
FORECAST FOR COFFEE AND SILK 
 
The trend in these two commodities is upward and they should be bought right along. 
They are not bearish. They move in completely different cycles than the other 
commodities discussed. They have great possibilities to act similarly as coca, rubber 
and wheat late last year or copper last February. 
 
 
- 72 -

--- PAGE 98 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for June, 1937 
By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the tips and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
All actions taken by readers on the comments given here are nude at their own risk, 
this being merely an opinion of what Astrological Law indicates “should happen.” 
 
WITH the coining of the month of June, the decline in stocks as shown by planetary 
aspects (by interpretation of these aspects) should not be completed yet. They indicate 
continued further declines up to June 9 or 10. As is usually the case, the process of a 
decline develop develops first slowly, gradually increasing in speed and finally it 
reaches a climax, when everything is thrown overboard to “save what can be saved." 
At such times we get a bottom. Such a bottom seems to be slated for the dates given 
above. A rally should then set in that would bring prices back 50% of what was lost 
during the month of May up to June 8-10. It appears at this time that it would be wise 
to cover the short positions, if any were taken, and buy long once more in the leading 
stocks. Inactive issues as well as low-priced issues should be shunned. Usually they 
do not perform in these types of rallies, but merely try to hold their own. The rally 
should reach into the month of July.  
 
There is a likelihood of a rally the first two days of June, where you may get tempted 
to buy. There is also a likelihood of a market action during the last six days of June, 
that looks like a good top for a reversal. Both conditions as far as Astrology goes, are 
not substantial; you should not buy on the rally of the first two days of June, and you 
should not sell on the sidewise movement at the end of June, but simply hold 
positions intact. 
 
WHEAT 
 
Wheat indicates a further decline the first nine days of June, for a substantial, solid 
bottom. Of course, when we look back in wheat prices whence we came, we should 
by the time June 9, is reached, be fairly far down and things may not look so good just 
then. They may be talking of an excess of millions of bushels of wheat in reports, but, 
that is only talk. Wheat should be at or very close to a bottom anyhow. 
 
There is another low indicated towards the end of June, possibly the first two days of 
July. This one should be a higher low than the one of June 9. In order to bring forth 
two lows, we should have a rally in between these two dates. This rally may be very 
small and the entire affair may be called a sidewise movement, preparatory to being 
groomed for a strong advance later on. 
 
Of course, under such conditions one may take lone; wheat positions around the 9th, 
on weakness, watch closely the strength as it develops, sell out on that strength and 
wait for the secondary reaction to buy wheat back again. 
 
 
- 73 -

--- PAGE 99 of 260 ---

COTTON 
 
This commodity shows a sidewise movement with slightly lower tendencies during 
the first three weeks of June, up to the time the Sun gets into Cancer, giving a day or 
two more for good measure. Then a change of trend may be expected that should 
bring about a sharp reversal upward, running well into July. 
 
COTTONSEED OIL, LARD AND BUTTER 
 
These “fats” have been acting poorly since the and of December, last year, and it 
should be about time that they straighten themselves up again. In last month’s issue, I 
spoke of a bottom likely to be made May 20, and a second one, May 29. If you watch 
them carefully, as we enter the month of June, I believe they can be bought for a new 
cycle upward. Activity should not be much, and most people would think they are not 
worth buying just yet; but this is usually the best time to get aboard. My opinion is to 
buy them early in June and hold them straight through the month into the next month. 
 
 AS TO other commodities such as hides, rubber, copper, cocoa, etc., you may buy 
them after the first week in June, provided they also had their steady decline during 
the month of May. They are bound to have a rally with the others, if nothing else. 
Rallies in commodities do pot consist of a few points, but at this stage they may 
extend from 51 to 102 points, 
 
 
 
depending upon the commodity. "He who has acquired my book ‘Time Factors,' 
should add these values to the chapter wherein I treat commodities." 
 
All in all, it may be said that planetary influences point towards a general low level 
between June 9 and a few days later, in all sorts of markets, from which a rally, 
respectively a rise should ensue. 
 
It may be wise here to give the readers each month a small article on trading practice, 
especially intended for those who do not get my weekly close range analysis. 
 
 
 
 
- 74 -

--- PAGE 100 of 260 ---

WHAT IS HEDGING IN A COMMODITY? 
 
"Hedging" means to protect oneself. The average market writer who has to tell in his 
market letter what the markets are likely to do, but has nothing at his disposal but 
statistics of past performance, which anybody soon finds out is of little use, does a lot 
of hedging. In one sentence he says, "we move up," in the next he says, "we may 
move down though," and, the subscriber knows very well himself that there are only 
two ways the market can go, up or down. 
 
 
 
 Therefore, after reading their five and more pages weekly "digest" or whatever they 
may call it, you or anyone else knows as much about what he should do as he did 
before he read it. Of course, this is the easiest way out. In commodities the same 
procedure is used. Supposing you buy wheat, expecting it to go. However, it goes the 
other way. You know, however, that a turn should come in say four days from now. 
During these four days, wheat is liable to decline another 6 cents or more. To protect 
yourself, but not being sure of the exact distance wheat does go down yet, you hedge; 
you sell the same amount you had bought "at the market." and tell the broker to leave 
the trade open. Assuming that it declines 5 more points and the time is due for a turn, 
or you get other indications of a similar nature, then you tell the broker to buy back 
your "hedge,” i.e., the short position in this case. This then makes you long of wheat 5 
points lower. You may have gone short altogether, by selling out and taking a short 
position, in this case you would have had a five point profit. But this must have 
appeared too risky and therefore you resorted to the “hedge.” Looking at it from the 
other side, you may have gone short in cotton at a high level, but after you took the 
short position, cotton kept on going higher. You are fairly sure that the trend has to 
turn shortly, downward. In this case you take a “hedge” by buying the same number 
of contracts in the same options (not in other months). This makes you "neutral." 
Assuming that cotton runs upward (thus against your short commitment) another 60 
points and you sense that this is the top, you release your "long hedge" by selling it, 
this action makes you automatically short 60 points higher The cost of a hedge is just 
the commission. At times it is highly advisable to use hedges, especially when it is a 
question of margins. Of course, one must never forget about his hedge, else he is 
riding in neutral (think of the automobile). 
 
 
 
 
- 75 -

--- PAGE 101 of 260 ---

In very hectic markets, when sharp ups and downs occur, or when one is not sure of 
himself whether a certain movement keeps on or whether it stops just then and wishes 
to get a good rest for a day or two, or, when one has just gone through a nice 
"whipsawing," the best cure for that condition is a "solid hedge." Nothing can happen 
to him during the hedge period. Whether cotton runs up or down, he is protected both 
ways and he can await until his nerves have settled and calmed, or until the ravaging 
storm has subsided and his mental condition has straightened itself up once more. 
When this is the case, then he should take out the hedge that is contrary to where he 
thinks or figures the market should move to. During sidewise movements I know, 
clever hedges can make a lot of profits.  
 
 
 
I know of one trader who ran himself into a $3,600 loss in wheat during the last sharp 
upmove at the end of March. He operated with hedges for a time and in the eight or 
ten days sidewise movement that followed, he was able to reduce that loss to 
practically nothing. 
 
Special article next month, "Puts and Calls on Stocks." 
 
 
- 76 -

--- PAGE 102 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for July, 1937 
By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the tips and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
All actions taken by readers on the comments given here are nude at their own risk, 
this being merely an opinion of what Astrological Law indicates “should happen.” 
 
PUTS and calls are usually a puzzle to traders., They seem to be more or less locally 
used in New  York.   However, I am quite sure that traders outside of New York could 
avail themselves of the facilities through the co-operation of their local brokerage 
offices. 
 
A put or a call is usually made for thirty days. Someone who has the stock or who 
carries a large account with a broker, writes puts and calls. It is merely a slip of paper, 
endorsed by a brokerage house, whereby the writer sells this paper for $137.50. 
Supposing you buy a call on U. S. Steel for 30 days at 85 and the monentary price let 
us assume is 80 1/4 or 4 3/4 points lower than your "call price," then, in case U. S. 
Steel moves upward to 90 within these 30 days, you may call for that stock upon the 
writer. Assuming you do that at the moment X sells at 89 1/2, your profit would be 4 
1/2 points less the cost of the call ($137.50) and less the commission that you have to 
pay for selling the stock in the open market and delivering at the same time the slip of 
paper to the one -/ho wrote it. The calls are usually written for 100 shares; so are the 
puts. The price quoted above is for 100 shares. 
 
"When you buy a put, you assume that the market goes lower. The one who sells it, 
believes, of course, it goes higher. You will always find that puts as well as calls are 
offered several points away from the selling price of the moment so as to give the 
writer "some" leeway. 
 
 
 
 
Puts and calls as a rule are rather unprofitable. Very seldom does the taker make any 
money with them, the writer is usually the winner in the transaction. 
First of all the writers are people with plenty of cash resources, secondly, they know 
usually more about markets than the taker does.  
 
 
 
- 77 -

--- PAGE 103 of 260 ---

Next, they figure that within 30 days even though for a while the movement may be in 
one direction, it very seldom goes a full month in one "direction and the taker as a 
rule, when he sees paper profits coming, feels so sure of seeing them get bigger that 
he waits for them only to see the profits dwindle away again as soon as the market 
turns the other way. Thus, as a rule, put and call writers make large profits through 
quantity sales. They write puts and calls on both sides. One person may want a put, 
some other may want a call (on the same stock) and they get it. A lot of bargaining is 
done with the special brokers that handle that type of business. One may want 4 up on 
steel, another may offer it at 3 1/2 up for a call. Dickering back and forth over the 
telephone you may find that X is moving up a point or so; in such a case the writer of 
the call keeps on moving up his offer (you are the bidder) and he may say: "Now I 
want 4 1/2 up, take it or leave it." Remember the buyer of puts and calls has to deal 
with very shrewd people and the only advantage he has is: to know more than they do. 
 
How to get the best of put and call brokers, i.e., to become the winner or to make 
profits with s. put or a call: 
 
Never buy a put or a call in markets that move sidewise. Always take puts and calls in 
leading stocks only. Use high priced stocks for puts as well as for 
 
 
 
 
calls. Take a call when a prolonged upward movement is starting; take a put when a 
prolonged decline is starting. Do not be too late, else the writer increases quickly the 
number of points at which he wants to issue the put or call. As soon as he "smells a 
rat," up goes his rate. 
 
 
- 78 -

--- PAGE 104 of 260 ---

THE only time puts and calls become profitable is when we get "the sting" of Scorpio 
formation, in stocks (for puts) or when we get an "Aries" movement (an inverted sign 
of Aries) upward as well as downward, or thirdly, when we get a Sagittarius 
movement. All the other formations are seemingly for the benefit of the writers of 
puts and calls. Thus, we have three signs that favor the taker, but nine signs that favor 
the writer; in other words, the odds are against the taker. On top of it, his wits are 
placed against yours besides and, you can believe one thing, that if the writer of a put 
or call gets only $137.50 against the likelihood that you make a killing and gain 
twenty or more points, representing in dollars and cents $2000 or more within one 
month he watches pretty carefully your chance. In this respect, anyone taking puts or 
calls should make sure first that he has the right direction and that a big important 
movement is due to develop. 
 
They also offer what is called straddles, which is a put and a call' combined on one for 
the same stock. The price is usually a little less than double the $137.50. In this case, 
you are all right even though you do not know the direction of the move, provided 
you are sure that the movement is important. However, a straddle is much more 
expensive and the loss greater in case the movement does not come. 
 
Puts, calls and straddles always expire at 2.45 P.M., New York trading time on the 
thirtieth day after they are made (written). If they are for 60 or for 90 days, then they 
expire at the same time on the 60th or 90th day, respectively. This is marked on the 
slip of paper. 
 
 
 
 
 
They must be delivered in person (or by a person) to the writer if called or put to him. 
Your own broker usually takes care of that part. 
 
 
- 79 -

--- PAGE 105 of 260 ---

There used to be "eight-day papers," also "two-day, papers," but they do not write 
these anymore. 
 
My experience with "papers," i.e., puts, calls and straddles, has been that they are fine 
for quick, big profits at very great intervals; most of the time you just get for your 
money the "slip of paper." 
 
Below is the picture of a put, such as was sold by a writer on May 12, 1937, for 100 
shares of steel, 4 1/2 points away from the monentary quotation. This put becomes of 
actual value as soon as U. S. Steel drops below 93% at the rate increase of $100 for 
each point drop below that level and provided, of course, that the put is then 
exercised, by buying the stock in the open market and putting it to the writer who has 
to accept it. The endorsement of the broker is on the back of the slip of paper. 
 
STOCKS 
 
The stock market should work higher as we enter the month of July until July 10, at 
which time we have to expect an important top that should turn out to be the end of 
our sign of Scorpio. A new cycle downward should then begin of rather long duration. 
The market should begin to decline into August. 
 
WHEAT—I expect wheat to be around a low as we enter the month of July and 
purchases may be advisable. The advance indicated should last through the entire 
month of July into August. 
 
COTTON—An upward movement is indicated for the first seven or eight days of 
July, followed by a reversal to around July 24, and up again for the balance of the 
month. 
 
COTTONSEED OIL, LARD and the-SUGARS (No. 3, especially) should turn rather 
bullish and commitments may be made in them oh the long side.  
 
 
 
Cocoa, copper and others which had the sheer drop this Spring should not do very 
much and sort of keep in a sidewise movement, only good for trading them back and 
forth in a range of about 50 points. 
 
- 80 -

--- PAGE 106 of 260 ---

The month of July should witness difficult cross movements, a fight between bull and 
bear forces in the various fields of trading. In my work I can reconcile the idea that 
the June rally is merely representing the end "hook" of Scorpio to be followed by 
lower levels in the form of an Aquarius sign. However, my work on cotton and on 
wheat as well as many other commodities show higher levels (subject to normal 
reactions) for the balance of the year. How this works out in actuality I do not know. 
It would indicate droughts or short crops. Lower stock prices at the same time would 
indicate further labor troubles, difficulties for corporations to improve their earnings. 
As far as "economics" are concerned this is not well possible. But, last Spring, 
economics also pointed higher for stocks and nothing much disturbing was indicated 
and we all know what happened; the forecasts written proved to "be fairly right. I 
shall stick to my planetary interpretations; you on your part have the choice, either 
take the majority's view: "Economics" or the other. One is likely to be just 
diametrically opposite the other and thus, one got to be not right, i.e., one should be 
wrong. We also know that the public is usually wrong and only a few are right. In 
fact, I am quite convinced that when we reach around July 10, in-stocks, a lot of 
people will start to have "hopes" again for much higher prices and they most likely 
will buy just at the top once more. 
 
 
 
- 81 -

--- PAGE 107 of 260 ---

Market Analysts for December, 1937 
By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the tips and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
All actions taken by readers on the comment, given here are made at their own risk, 
this being merely an opinion of what Astrological Law indicates “should happen.” 
 
MOST of the readers will recall that in August, 1936, I stated that my work indicates 
the DOW Jones industrials to reach 198, i.e. the low point of November 13, 1929. 
Later on, in December, 1936, I stated that this price should be reached by March 9, 
1937. In the March issue, 1937, I told you that, when the high is made on March 9, 
1937, we should decline until Thanksgiving, i.e. till November 28, 1937. There was to 
be one re-awakening from Tune 12th until July 10th (the latter date became top for 
several stocks, but not for all) and then we were supposed to zig-zag down into the 
valley. 
 
Who of the readers did believe  this forecast?   Some of the better known "statistical 
Services" sent out broad- 
 
 
 
sides exactly on the very top, March 9, 1937, that: "the bull movement for inflation is 
starting in now" . . . another well known market adviser advertised nearly a full page 
the first few days of April: "now buy all you can buy"… 
What science do they use to "see'' all these things ahead of time? How many bulls 
have followed their advice? 
 
 
- 82 -

--- PAGE 108 of 260 ---

Our forecasts, even though they were not 100 per cent correct, have been just a wee 
bit better than their opinions. All we try to get is the trend of things, the trend of 
Nature as expressed in stock or wheat prices. 
 
Recently some big New York Sunday paper had a long article about a professor up in 
Boston who thinks that Sun Spots may have something to do with market movements. 
Ah . . . this is were he steps right into astrology with both feet. Of course, I cannot 
give a scientific explanation of: what is a Sun Spot, but I believe, I am able to give an 
unscientific explanation of the phenomenon. 
 
A-Sun spot is simply a pimple on the face of the Sun. Everyone knows that a pimple 
comes and then goes again. People say: it is in the blood. If so, I say: It is Mars who 
gives you pimples and if Mars is able to produce good-looking pimple's, on your face, 
he surely is able to make that same thing on the Sun's face, because they also come 
and go. 
 
If Mars is the defacer of-the Sun's physiognomy, we cannot just get, into our mind 
how such a thing can be achieved, unless we know something about astrological rules. 
It should be certain aspects of Mars either directly to the Sun or to some other planets 
which in turn are reflexed or expressed on the Sun's face Of course, you may say: 
Mars rotates around the Sun in about 2 1/2 years, while Secchi, in his work, "Le 
Soleil," has an average period of recurring minima Sun spots of 10.99 years, while he 
states that the maxima seem to recur every 11.35 gears.    The trick behind it is that 
during certain definite rounds, Mars just simply does not act, i.e. runs in neutral. This 
queer fact should interest all astrologers when they look for certain aspects to come 
off and they just won't come. Reason: the aspect is present, but neutralized and won't 
act. 
 
There should never be such a condition as the Sun being so full "of pimples" that we, 
could not recognize its face anyone or that it could not "shine" anymore, until cured, 
in that Nature always runs in balance: too much on one side is equalized with, 
temporarily too little on the other side. The whole is present just the same. A bull 
market that has gone its way is equalized by a bear trend which follows. Most people 
can only think one way, the bull way. When the bear way arrives, they are not 
following it to their sorrow later on. Of course, when we look at matters closely and 
when we consider "money and its movements" as something alive, we feel quite sure 
that it has its ups and downs like a. human being, going into one's pocket and out 
again and nothing can be done about it. Who can try to hold Mature? And money is 
just as well a part of Nature as anything else. 
 
Coming back to the Sun spots, some readers may think it should be Jupiter, due to the 
fact that it requires about 12 years to pass through the Zodiac. This figure seems to be 
more closely related to the average recurrence of maxima and: minima of Sun spots, .. 
However, small a part .he may play in it, I claim it is Mars just the same that causes 
Sun spots. Of course, there are certain books available which show clearly that Mars 
is the culprit of everything and that the Sun astrologically should be considered as 
having, only a very minor role in the life of the Universe, upon human beings, stocks, 
wheat or anything else. These books I am speaking of do not "tell a lie and they can 
be found in nearly every home. 
 
 
- 83 -

--- PAGE 109 of 260 ---

Some might object about the color of the Sun spots. They appear to be black, as far as 
I have read. I have never seen any myself. Mars, we learn from astrological texts 
should produce a red color and not a black one. This is true for beings on this earth. It 
does not imply that on the Sun Mars, does not produce a black color while on Venus it 
might produce a yellow color and on Saturn possibly a blue color. 
 
We know-too little about the effects of planets upon other planets, we know even very 
little about their effects upon our own planet. 
 
Therefore, assuming that Mars produces the pimples on-the Sun, and further, 
following the line of thought of-the scientist in Boston, that the Sun spots "seemingly" 
have-an influence on markets, we find that Mars influences markets. Students who 
have acquired .my special wheat laws, know only too well how the planet-Mars 
influences the movements of wheat and that all we have to know is the cycle in which 
it repeats its effects. In order to prevent many arduous students, who wish to tackle 
the subject "Sun spots" and apply it to markets, let me state that, after, many months 
of special studies of Sun spots, going back with. Professor Wolf and his findings over 
one hundred years oh Sun spot history, I found that for trading purposes you can 
forget all about them. They cannot be used, neither can you use the minima or 
maxima advantageously. Their effect applies to the world at large and not to U. S. 
Steel or to Montgomery Ward. Just the same Mars is the culprit but in much different 
ways. 
 
As we enter the month of December, 1937, we should have passed the crisis and 
stocks-should have turned just on Thanksgiving Day, although that was a. holiday. 
Nature does not distinguish between week days, holidays or Sundays. It only 
recognizes the seventh day, which by the way is not meant as a day of our usual 
calendar such as is adopted all over the world. A day as explained in the Bible (if you 
can read it) is a certain number of degrees, minutes and seconds in the Zodiac and not 
a thing which has 24 hours and no minutes, no seconds. The great ancient astrologers 
talked-and wrote in a language that everyone could understand; but, they meant in 
every word they said exactly something else than the several billions of men who 
have lived, since it was produced, believed it to mean. 
 
Therefore, Thanksgiving Day should really become a Day of Thanksgiving fop the 
bulls, provided they were able to hold on to stocks which they bought last March and 
last July. My work shows that we are now turning upward for a good sized rally. This 
rally should keep up till December 20th and then we should have a decline into the 
New Year. 
 
Of course, you most likely will want to get my opinion on the next year's market for 
stocks. While my yearly forecast issued in-the Fall of the preceding year would tell 
more accurately the expected doings, nevertheless, I can see no bull market to follow 
such a decline. We remain for a long time in a very fine trading market. Every time 
when things look good, stocks can be sold and when they look bad again, they can be 
bought. Stocks should not recover sufficiently to let those out even which bought 
"sky-high," in fact it appears that they will get teased several times the coming year, 
that they get filled with hopes which soon should fade away again. 
 
 
- 84 -

--- PAGE 110 of 260 ---

As to buying stocks the last few days of November, it is suggested to buy the little 
cheap stocks, selling around a couple of dollars instead of indulging in the so-called 
high-priced stocks which then, most likely, parade in the 40 and 50 level instead of 
the old one hundred class where they had been last spring and summer. 
 
Wheat Analysis for December, 1937 
 
Many will recall my December forecast of 1936-when I was so bullish that I could see 
$1.50 for wheat, although we still were around the dollar level then. This year, wheat-
is bullish too, beginning with November 25th to 26th. There are some minor reactions 
indicated during the month of December, but not sufficient to warrant playing for 
them, at least not on hand of a forecast that is- made October 15. 1937. 
 
December 1st to 4th should' be bullish, also December 14th to 17th; December 21st to 
24th should be bearish, so also December 9th to 11th: 
 
In the accompanied chart for wheat I am drawing in two lines of trends. As-you note, 
at times these two lines conflict with each other: This means the two forces which I 
have picked out to influence wheat's movements are contrary, one pulling up, the 
other down. Therefore, nothing much can happen during such contrary periods. 
 
All forecasts made in this column are based on astrological laws and, bear in mind my 
saying further up: sometimes it happens that the aspects run in neutral and nothing 
happens, even the contrary might happen! Forecasts are opinions and not facts. 
 
- 85 -

--- PAGE 111 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for January 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the tips and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
All actions taken by readers on the comment, given here are made at their own risk, 
this being merely an opinion of what Astrological Law indicates “should happen.” 
 
DID YOU ever watch men walking down the street looking for ladies' ankles? Such 
an impertinent way to start an article about astrological rules and about the stock 
market! When all that you are interested in is to see them move up, meaning the 
stocks. 
 
However, a lot of secrets are right in the street, but are not recognized. What makes 
men look for the ankles of a woman? And, by the way, the ladies are looking for the 
wrist of man. Their object is not to get themselves into some weird entanglements; 
they, only try to judge the woman. Thus, I state: men-judge the women by their 
ankles. Everything they want to know is incorporated in those svelt or plump ankles, 
shaped in many forms; each one is different. However, men have found out through 
instinct that certain shapes of ankles appeal to them, others not. Immediate, upon 
making a judgment; the entire female cither appeals to them or not, including face, 
form of body, personality and everything that goes with it, to like the person or dislike 
her. 
 
Let me bring another case that is similar. When going through the country, we pass 
numberless villages. As we get acquainted, with good many, we are pretty well able 
to judge each village by just simply looking at the church of the village or at the 
village hall. These two invariably will tell us about the entire village, about its 
inhabitants without even ever having seen one of them. We can judge the prosperity 
of the village, the inhabitants, their type of religion. Experienced men are even able to 
recognize from the picture of a church the country as well as the region to which such 
church is a "native” of. 
 
This brings me over from practical Astrology into book Astrology.. We are all 
acquainted" with the so-called solar horoscopes, whereby the Sun is taken as taken the 
main planet that indicates all events, due to come. Therefore, we simply make the 
same assumption as men do with ankles, women with wrists, the same as we look at 
the village church to judge the village. 
 
In that we have seven planets (how old-fashioned . . .) to consider, we are just shy of 
six that also require judgment, the same us a woman has more parts in her body than 
merely the ankle or the village more buildings than the church and the burgomaster's 
house. But, experience has shown us, that for a general judgment, the church is 
enough, the ankle suffices and so the Sun, the subject of judgment, is sufficient to 
give good results. We might lust as well take Mercury or Venus, or Saturn or any 
other planet and do the same way and get the same results or nearly so, at least. This 
 
- 86 -

--- PAGE 112 of 260 ---

can be illustrated in our examples: easily, by substituting for the ankle the wrist, as the 
females of our race liked to do, or the face, the arms, etc., and obtain similar 
judgments provided we have, the experience. With villages we may do the same. We 
may use the homes of the leading citizen or the village, the barns (size, shape, 
contents) and arrive at solid conclusions. 
 
Such judgments do not include momentary conditions in a certain part of the village, 
where by chance a house has just burned down or a. silo being erected just then, the 
same as when judging women by ankle or arm or face, it does not reveal things or 
facts that are not visible on the surface, such as sickness, fear, mourning, etc. The 
same, a. solar horoscope does not reveal deeper truths such as would .apply munch 
more individually to John than to Jack, if both were born in April, but one at 7.32 
A.M. on the 5th of a year and the other at 2.34 P. M. on the 3d of some year, not even 
considering the place of birth. Both are covered if we make a solar horoscope. In case 
we would make Mercurian Horoscopes, then John might fit James who was born on 
February 19th of some year, because, we would, be forced to judge the same Mercury 
positions to repeat and Mercury may be at one certain spot on February 19th of a year 
and be at the same spot also on April 3d or 4th of some other year. In such an event 
two natives, one born on that February 19th and the other on  April 3d would have as 
much relation to each other as two persons born on April 3d of different years, which 
would have the Sun in the same place. This same logic we can continue with any of 
the planets. We also have; slow moving planets which take long periods to move from 
one place to another, and of which we can do the-very thing. We finally arrive at the 
bigger cycles: generations. The people of the period covered by 1750 to 1800 
belonged to a cycle of revolution, they were content with each other, killed one 
another and got along nicely that way. (French revolution, our war with France, 
general European upheaval). The people of the period covered by 1825-1890 were 
more peacefully inclined, brought forth the railroad age and then left us to build our 
own generation.   My conclusion now is: we live in our own cycle and we cannot 
understand the actions of some other cycle that has passed or is to come. The Spanish 
inquisition of the 16th century for example always had a certain attraction to me, 
feeling the cruelty and tormentations done by the clergy of that period to suppress 
everything and anything that only "smelled" as being detrimental to their fanatic 
money grabbing interests. The clergy then ruled with much more ruthless hands than 
any Russian communist ever could attempt to rule. We read that Russia just simply 
shoots its enemies; the others did let them linger thirty and forty years in dungeons 
without light, three-quarters starved, putting them each year for Easter and Christmas 
on the "stretcher" to sanctify the holy times. If you care to read up on this special 
subject, your library surely contains many volumes of these "exclusive"' times and we 
think that we have hard times. 
 
Now, such times are incomprehensible to us, unbelievable, although true. We do not 
live in this planetary age. We would not fit into it, just as little as they, who lived then, 
would fit into ours. 
 
It would not be pretending too much it I say that since 1929 we are moving in a 
brand-new age in an age of revolution, bloody in some parts of the world, bloodless in 
other parts, revolting just the same. My expression "revolt"' should be construed in its 
original meaning: re-volvere, to move around, meaning a complete change of planets' 
positions which bring about new ideas, new thoughts, new acts new everything, 
 
- 87 -

--- PAGE 113 of 260 ---

abandoning old styles, old ways, old habits, etc. It seems to me that the culprit which 
brought this about was Neptune. As soon as he entered into Virgo, the stone began 
rolling. Neptune now about half way through the sign; it this "revolver-ing" keeps on 
the other 10 degrees of "Virgo, we are bound to find the world in a brand-new suit. 
 
Of course, all this talk should be applicable to market movements this is why it was 
brought here. Let us see how we can do it. The ankle or church of our example is one 
of the leading stocks such as U. S. Steel (X). From this stock (or pick DD, WX, GL, 
GM if you want) and its action we are usually able to judge the entire list, from the 
smallest to the tallest. If Steel is in an uptrend, you are pretty sure that even the eighth 
stocks will occasionally tick a quarter, although we hare no idea as to when they will 
do that quarter tick. If Steel moves up then Motors or Goodyear cannot be very -well 
in a down trend, except for a few days, not even Mercury can be found in Sagittarius 
or in Aquarius, unless some smart Alec puts them in heliocentric position to spite you.   
But I mean only geocentric positions here. 
 
Therefore, let us call U. S. Steel the Sun. of the stock market. The other stocks we call 
the six other planets. We know that they always move in complete harmony with it as 
wheels of the Universe. This harmony is expressed in motion of price and time. We 
know that the Sun occasionally strikes, unfavorable places while, passing through the 
Zodiac; so Steel. Steel finds resistance places or prices which prevent it from going 
further. It either turns down completely or stops temporarily. As soon as the Sun does 
reach such places, the other planets also begin to feel bad about it; they may decide to 
start to retrograde or to change their declinations or even their latitudes, trying to 
adjust, themselves to the Sun's troubles. Stocks act the same way. When Steel "gets 
stuck" on the upside, the other stocks may keep on going nicely for a few days, until 
they notice what has happened to Steel. As soon as they notice it, they hesitate too, 
they stop or even go back so as to keep "in line." Assuming that Steel actually goes 
lower, there is little doubt about the others. They quickly make up their mind to 
follow, i. e., to go down. They follow the leader, Steel, i. e. the Sun, if we may call 
Steel "the Sun" for our purpose of illustration. 
 
Therefore, it is always good-to use a guide when trading. For certain periods you may 
use one stock. But, when it stops "leading the way," pick out another which does. You 
may or may not trade in the leader or any other stock you wish. Groups of stocks 
show the same peculiarity. Copper (C) usually leads the coppers, General Motors 
(GM), the motors, Gas (ED), the utilities, Central (CN), the rails, etc. 
 
The reason why we could enlarge somewhat in this article on other thoughts relating 
to market actions (let me know it you care to have others of that type), is due to the 
fact that nothing exciting appears due in stocks for January, 1938. As a matter of fact, 
the forecast for January shows a line across the month: little is due to happen. All is 
"'preparation for a move." The movement in January should be in a range of about 
five or six points of the Dow Jones averages. The first four days should be even, 
followed on the 5th by a decline, sagging slightly till the eleventh, sidewise till the 
thirteenth. An attempted rally from then to the seventeenth, changing its mind again 
and coming down to the levels, of the 10th to 11th by the twentieth, sagging a little 
more till the twenty-fourth. This point should be a LOW POINT, from which a rally 
should start that should be the beginning of a very strong upward mow. However, you 
 
- 88 -

--- PAGE 114 of 260 ---

will not be able to recognize it anymore in January. In fact, the closing of January 
should be lower than the opening of the month. 
 
Stocks should be accumulated on weakness daring the entire month. 
 
Wheat should act better during January than stocks. An upward movement should 
develop the first week of January, 1938, and wheat should push up practically 
throughout this month, but watch when we get into February! Around the first of 
February, 1938, my work indicates Top For Wheat For the Entire Year, 1938! Note, 
that this is written Armistice Day, 1937. 
 
 
 
- 89 -

--- PAGE 115 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for February 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
Mr. Bayer again obliges our many readers on the tips and downs of the market. The 
accuracy of these forecasts can only be judged by taking the past forecasts and 
following the news reports of the dates. Those of our readers who are especially 
interested in Market movements are invited to write Mr. Bayer at 3216 Crescent St., 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
All actions taken by readers on the comment, given here are made at their own risk, 
this being merely an opinion of what Astrological Law indicates “should happen.” 
 
IN THE beginning -was a small city, business house on dirt roads, a few farms with 
barns, cows and chickens. A church, evidently the center of the place with a tall spire 
surrounded by a cemetery formed the focus of New Amsterdam. One of the roads 
leading from the church was called Wall Street. 
 
One nice morning to be more exact, on the 17th of May, 1792, several inhabitants of 
this city sat under a buttonwood tree discussing financial affairs. At that time the 
moneyed classes exchanged shares of canal companies and of the one or two banks 
that existed. There was some discussion about commissions that were to be charged 
for the sale or purchase of shares. So far, nothing was organized; all was chaos. One 
charged so much a share, another tried to charge a little more. The year previous there 
were some wide movements in bank stocks, a decline that may be compared to the 
one we had last year. That specific meeting of May 17th, 1792, brought 22 
commission brokers to agree that they will from now on charge anyone one-quarter 
per cent commission for the purchase or sale of a security. 
 
This was the true beginning of the stock market. There is no definite record of the 
moment of time when this meeting took place. The main meeting seems to have 
occurred just around noon time, but. I have discovered through astrological laws that 
there •were several meetings, one on the 15th, two on the 16th and another one even 
on the 18th of May that year. 2 also have been able to locate the time of those 
meetings. To avoid a lot of work to students who intend to erect a chart for May 17th, 
1792, N.Y.C., I state that such a chart does not work, but that the four meetings have, 
to be taken into consideration. Strange to say, in fact, it is completely against book 
Astrology, it seems that one planet became active daring the first meeting, another 
during the second meeting, another one, even two during the main meeting and two of 
them only became operative a day later. Which ones and their sequence doe3 not 
matter here. 
 
 
- 90 -

--- PAGE 116 of 260 ---

After the stock market was definitely started, the agreement signed, stocks began to 
move tip and down. It did not take long to find out that European news seemed to 
influence the market. Boats took a month or more to come over. Such arrivals were 
eagerly awaited at that time. Napoleon was on his march through Europe. History was 
made there. Stocks seemingly moved up and down on the European news. The first 
one to know the European situation could act accordingly before others heard of it. 
 
It meant business for the canals, subsequent profits to the share holders. Bank shares 
showed increased profits if business advanced and decreased profits, even losses 
when business in general declined. 
 
There can be little doubt that around this period the first statisticians began to appear. 
The way they figure now car loading of railroads to make deductions as to what effect 
it should have upon future stock prices, so at that time they most likely figured how 
many ships are due in the harbor of New York this week, next week and the 
following, estimating from the number of such vessels the probable fluctuations of 
stocks for the period following: 
 
We know from experience that when some news of any kind becomes known, two 
possibilities exist: stocks either move down or they move up upon publication of such 
news. If they move down after the publication of bad news, they say: it was not 
known; if stocks move up on bad news, they say: it was known somewhere before, or: 
it was discounted. What actually should happen, they do not know. Guessing at news 
usually turns out sour. There are so many. rules and so many exceptions to the-rules 
that it is a hopeless case. But, for want of something better they cling to statistics like 
a drowning man to a straw. In a recent newspaper article I noticed a statement of a 
professor researching on the habits of Americans. He brought twenty rules. One of 
them I am convinced myself is absolutely true. He said: "The American people 
believe what they read." If the-newspapers feed the average American day after day, 
 
- 91 -

--- PAGE 117 of 260 ---

year after year the same old stories: wheat rallies on export demand; wheat rallies on- 
frost in Argentine; stocks, rise on broad investment buying, etc., they believe it. How 
is it possible for anyone to gage overnight the amount of exports that occur in one 
single day at-the 20 or 25 harbors of the country or count up the individual, orders 
coming from Europe over night to be broadcast to traders for their benefit? 
 
Once in a while, when Mars casts, a serious bad aspect to the stock market and stocks 
tumble without news from any place then you find newspapers recording this fact in 
words about as follows: A decline occurred in stocks today. While the news was 
favorable, no cause for the decline can be given. European selling, also Bombay 
selling seems to be the cause. Next day some other, headline, to apply to the current 
news is used. You never hear in a newspaper that there might be an astrological cause. 
The word Astrology seems to belong to the period of the Middle Ages, when the 
kings had their private astrologers, such as is demonstrated in the funny strip of some 
newspapers which just now show king Foozle of the Kingdom of Moo, back in the. 
Stone Age with his grand Wiser, a splendid place to put him. 
 
As. the time went on, newspapers began to bring comments on the stock, market. 
Some keep their opinions rather neutral, others however, are rather definite in their 
suggestions, although coming under the class of opinions. One of them for example, 
late last summer stated as his opinion that before Christmas stocks will be back at the 
March levels of 1937, possibly even higher. Of course; in order to get this opinion all 
you needed was two cents and it was yours. The opinion of the same man in early 
December, 1937, is rather bearish; he cannot see-any advance. Why? Why was he 
bullish just after the top was made in. stocks and bearish just after the bottom is-
made? Because he uses something, whatever secret it might be, that is not Astrology, 
Maybe, he uses book Astrology and applies it to stock movements. Book Astrology is 
the most dangerous weapon with which to attack the stock: market; On the finest 
square of Sun to Jupiter which according to book Astrology, should bring financial 
difficulties, the stock market makes with such an aspect many times a gap upward and 
runs upward like wild to the consternation of astrologers. The reason for this is: a 
square between Sun and Jupiter can mean many things to the stock market. The 
repetition of cycles occur in absolutely different ways. For those who try to figure 
markets with Astrology, be it said: ephemeral aspects, mutual or lunar aspects, 
perihelium or aphelium distances, Moon on the Equator, Apogee or Perigee of-the 
Moon, Planets in the Node, greatest elongation superior or inferior conjunctions or 
any such things have nothing to do with stock movements, except that they seem to 
"click" once in a while. 
 
Some advantage lies in studying the ephemeris for the physical observations pf the 
Sun, using the value P. But a substantial knowledge of astronomy is required so that 
one knows the purpose of such an ephemeris and then you just get certain turning 
points (not all) and the direction of the turn can not be had from it. Some times it is a 
reversal, at other times a gap, i.e., a strong continuation of the previous movement. 
My work "Time Factors" does not touch -this subject; it treats entirely different ways 
to approach the subject: movements of stocks or wheat. 
 
Let us now-see what the planetary combinations indicate for the month of February, 
1938. Let us check carefully during February to see whether or not the little men who 
 
- 92 -

--- PAGE 118 of 260 ---

trade in billions of dollars during that month can be measured as to their intended 
operations long before they actually begin to “juggle” the markets. 
 
Stocks should have nosed upward gradually toward the end of the month of January, 
1938,: with rails leading the parade. As we enter the month of February, things should 
get much more lively on the upside; in fact, conditions should get real bullish. 
 
However, when we recall the tremendous decline of last year, we cannot expect a bull 
market immediately. Much churning, backing and filling should occur. Therefore, 
when everything begins to look rosy, when talk about the big spring rise gets into the 
front pages of newspapers, it is time to take-in the sails again, gradual disposal of long 
stocks on strength that were bought around Thanksgiving will become advisable 
beginning with Washington's birthday. A top is indicated at that time and. distribution 
should follow the balance of the month. 
 
As to wheat, a top is indicated the first, few days of. February with-distribution going 
on-full force during 'the;, entire month of February. This would mean sharp ups and 
down at fairly high levels, getting nowhere . . . as yet. March should tell the tale. We 
expect a series of 4c to 5c moves to creep in. during this period, each time when the 
top level seems reached, a sell-off should develop, just the same stubbornly refusing 
to give way completely to a decline of serious proportions. 
 
 
 
- 93 -

--- PAGE 119 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for March 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
THE STOCK market is due to make a very strange formation during the current 
month. Students will do well to try to get a hold of a chart of that period and study it. 
The month following I shall describe to you the formation in detail as I have been able 
to dig it out from the Tombs of the old Emperors of Egypt. These old tombs contain 
beautiful pictures representing men in all sorts of positions. Now, these pictures 
merely represent movements in the Universe and in our case movements of the stock 
market. Of course, some may object and say: they did not have a stock market then … 
I should have expressed myself a little differently. I meant comparisons can be made 
with these pictures. In fact, this movement of stocks due during March 1938 is a 
female figure and, "believe it or not", this female is carrying a child too. The question 
later on will be: is it one child that will later be born or are they even twins? I say: it 
will be twins that shall be born later on. The figure is standing sidewise, bending 
down, looking backwards, the head formed the last few days of February, the hands 
down in January. Later on we get the feet. More of that in the next issue. 
 
As we go into March, a low should be made and stocks should rally to the 9th or 10th 
of the month, react sharply to a new low, stay there for a few days (March .16th to 
19th), but come back once more quickly and stay up till the end of the month.  
Beware of April 1st!  ! 
 
Wheat should have formed a curve during February that looks also like a person 
bending over, whose hands are in January, whose head is hidden in early February 
and whose "Rear end" (Sorry, for want of a better word let me use this word) is 
forming the first week of March. Sharp ups and downs are due the first week of 
March, probably over till March 14th. Then the legs of the person stands on the feet, 
looks backward towards what has passed (never forward! !). So you know what we 
have to expect if wheat the rest of March and even further . . . 
 
The formation of the legs in a chart picture are those vicious declines that "murder" all 
the longs. I wonder now already what the newspapers will say about that decline, 
what cause they will give. Watch closely your papers and save the articles from day to 
day, paste them in an album and when all is over (some time in April) with the 
decline, read over what was written as the cause and then read our article once more. 
The whole decline may be a twenty cent drop or even more. 
 
Watch March 4th as an important top, March 8th as a small bottom and March 14th as 
the "last call" for the break to come. As stated that decline is to go into April and is 
not over as far as I can judge when March goes out. Winnipeg should not fare any 
better than Chicago, neither London, nor Buenos Aires. 
 
All this wisdom is taken from Egyptian astrology, something quite different than 
Bible astrology. 
 
 
- 94 -

--- PAGE 120 of 260 ---

Applied Astrology of Special Interest To Stock and Wheat Traders 
 
Of special interest to stock and wheat traders. 
 
Who has not read biographies of successful people? All of them show us the 
exceptions. The little fellow's life seemingly is not important to write a biography 
about. My drift of thought runs just diametrically opposite to this view. Of course, in 
newspapers we find plenty of biographies of crooks, murderers, kidnappers, etc. In the 
East here we are fully acquainted with the life and doings of many murderers. The 
middle West most likely knows the full history of the life of an Al. Capone. 
 
What we should really know is the biography of the average trader who tries hard to 
use the small funds he has to increase them. Luck as a rule as completely against him. 
Broader, fundamental laws are overlooked by him in his eagerness to make the dollar 
fast. 
 
I have before me this day a letter from, a party, in the West, name and place are 
deleted and I bring here the contents of the letter, changing only the figures around to 
avoid uneasiness to the writer. None will ever know who this person is. We only 
know it is one of our readers and many of us should profit by the contents of the letter 
and the answer that was given to this party this day. 
 
 
 
City, State, December 3rd, 1937 
Mr. George Bayer 
3216 Crescent Street 
Long Island City, N. Y. 
 
Dear Sir: 
I wrote you last year and then ordered your services for a while, but foolishly bought 
Packard stock at 12 1/3(25 shares), Radio at 13 1/8 and Murray Corp. at 19 7/8, and 
then when Spring came, my husband advised wheat.  
 
 
 
- 95 -

--- PAGE 121 of 260 ---

Well, we made over two hundred dollars on wheat, and he read and said he wanted to 
sell short at 1.31 (the high for wheat), but he had sold short three times before and 
lost, so I forbade him to sell short again in my account. 
Of course, he knew there would be scalps, but told me it would be risky—
nevertheless, I went to' the broker to sell a stock (I bad held it eight years) and it was 
48 7/8 that day and I had paid $50 for it years ago. 
 
I didn't' sell it, thinking it would reach 49 again, but sold it finally, at 47 5/8. My 
husband is vulnerable—an "easy mark". I tell him, and I am thoroughly disgusted 
with him for, he knew better and yet bought 2000 bu. December wheat the last days of 
July, at 1.18 1/4 it went down the same day, and yet, he didn't sell. Then I worried. It 
staged two five cents rally days—but, he did not go to the broker. Well, the upshot 
was—I bought at my husband's behest 2000 bu. more at 1.12 1/4 and .thought I could 
manipulate out of all the four thousand bushels, but, I couldn't and hated to take such 
a loss. I sold all my stocks, except one (at low prices) to use as margin on grain and 
then, when wheat got way down to 87 cents (nearly the bottom) he sold my grain— I 
lost $400 and the stock I am holding is only 6 1/2 and I paid 19 5/8. I’ve been tortured 
all these weeks—anguished night and day since July, because this husband who 
KNEW BETTER bought on a down market! He's says “It's my weakness when 
around a Board Room to buy, and since you knew it was a down market, you 
shouldn't have allowed me to scalp!” So,— we; have it back and forth, and nerves all 
frayed, and my lovely girl had to remain home from School. 
 
I have several hundred bushels of corn on a farm which we own that is mortgaged and 
we have it insured, holding it, hoping for-better than the price that they are-paying for 
it now. 
 
I have to meet interest on the mortgage and taxes and will do my utmost to sell the 
farm, even if I can make only $1000 over the mortgage. Will cash corn be better, do 
you think and when? And, if I buy 1000 bushels of May wheat on the Board, in order 
to try and make at least $30 or $40 back at a time, when shall I buy it? In your article 
of December you stated, the day after Thanksgiving or Thanksgiving, really— and I 
almost summoned nerve enough to buy 1000 bushels of wheat I’ve seen it go up till 
to-day (Friday) and one week after your forecast it reached 96 3/8! I'm wanting to get 
in, but the 1000 bushels will be on borrowed money from a relative of mine who 
wants to see me make back my losses. So,—do send me some information is I cannot 
pay for any service now—and want to ask your advice about my corn I'm holding and 
how to make something on wheat! We also have a prospect to buy our home. My 
husband is ... at only $125 per mon. and with insurance etc. to pay is running behind 
on that salary. We could have' made good profits had I allowed him to sell short 
wheat at 1.31. 
 
But, knowing he wasn't an experienced man, I was afraid he'd lose but instead he 
bought long, and I held on—and so lost it all,—margin too. I could have held the 
2000 bu. I bought at 1.18 1/4—for I had margin under it to 88 1/2—then it dropped -
to 85;and I could have borrowed of my relative to hold it—and my husband wouldn’t 
allow me to do that—he'd rather I lost, so wheat it rallied back, you recall, around 85 
and I still would be holding December wheat and wouldn't have taken such a terrible 
loss-- had I gone, on your judgment. . . 
 
 
- 96 -

--- PAGE 122 of 260 ---

Now, the market has rallied from 89 cents Thanksgiving and if I thought I could (or. 
was it 87. cents?) buy it to-morrow (Saturday) or Monday on a break—I'd buy 1000 
bu. and sell at even $20 profit as I need it. My husband thinks it may go up till 
December 20th, as-he is going by your article—do write, me an, airmail letter and 
advise me—if you should ever wire me—don't mention wheat, just mention the 
option, May, July as our local office and phone girls listen and with our position (a 
small town, you know) we are afraid to have anyone know! 
 
Any help or "information you can send will be appreciated to the fullest extent (Some 
personal notes follow here which have to be omitted). Then it continues: —yet, I was 
fool enough to let this husband of mine get me into this terrible loss! I am heart-sick 
and discouraged, but had I sold out immediately as you once wrote in an article, I'd 
have saved all but about $40 and would had made it back by now. My birth date is ... 
(Sun in Capricorn) and my husband's . . . (Sun in Gemini) My husband is well liked, 
has a grand personality, is honest and upright—liberal with his family, clean cut—no 
bad habits. This thing began several years ago, and he has lost time after time—he 
says I never let him sell out when the market goes down, so he can salvage his 
original sum, but I know he gets it at the wrong time. He seems to know "buy" days 
and it I had listened at all last Fall of 1936 when he wanted me to buy, I'd have had 
plenty ahead now. He reads your articles—and of course, though your service missed 
the market some, that was to have been expected. But I was afraid to buy then, and 
you recall it was a grand upturn all Fall. Then for us to get into this sort of a stock and 
grain market in July and hold over onto the worst months! Well! We are both so 
worried and about sick—my husband is growing thin, and I am not well at all through 
this wrong—so. if I can make even $50 or $100 back, let me know what you think I 
should do! My husband thinks wheat should go to 1.00 or a little better. He will begin 
to make charts again soon. 
 
You see, he kept saying that if we could buy on Winnipeg— we'd do much better, and 
when he had his first vacation early this year, he wanted to run over to Winnipeg, 
which is not far from us. Chicago has not followed Liverpool or Winnipeg or any 
market. They seem to "anticipate" any breaks and do it sooner and quicker than X. 
City or Minneapolis. My husband found out finally that he could buy Winnipeg right 
in our office —but it was too late; he had me in December wheat at Chicago! with 
disastrous results to all of us. 
 
Can we buy Winnipeg now, more safely?   I'm deathly afraid of   Chicago—since   
I've   lost   so   much   and   I   notice   Winnipeg went up 5 cents a day lately.  Do 
advise me—or us—my husband isn't going to run my account in the future—but he 
does study and   if   he   has   some- help   on   daily aspects with what he has studied 
out—by himself, I think he could direct me on buy days. 
 
Thanks so much if you'll send me a letter with any information to help me back on my 
feet and to help our whole family. My husband may sell our home and if he does—I'm 
worried sick for fear hell lose the money some way—on stocks or on the Board, but 
my daughter says she-is going to insist that lie never buys more than 1000 bushels at a 
time and then only when the price is down and not up! He said he did not have the   
current   issue with him and had not studied it when he bought last and so went in to 
scalp knowing he was taking a long, long chance! That is why my daughter and 
myself are so rebellious with him and disgusted and so far we can't forgive him! He 
 
- 97 -

--- PAGE 123 of 260 ---

made out the order to buy that day, in my account, but didn't make one to sell, then he 
could see it was a short sale after it went down two days—he could have caved me 
again. 
Forgive me for such a lengthy letter, but do help us if possible. 
Mrs. C. D. L. 
 
In all my practice I had but one other such lengthy letter that requires a whole day's 
work to study, analyze and answer right It would pay you to re-read once more this 
letter before proceeding; in that, the picture of the circumstances involved should 
become clear. A lady with a daughter, a home and a lovely husband, with a small 
farm on the side, is telling us in a lengthy explanation: 
 
I have lost a large sum compared to our income. I am a nervous wreck.   How can I 
recoup the loss? 
 
I sent this lady the following answer immediately: 
 
Dear Madam:- 
 
In answer to your favor of the 3rd I enclose current analysis to help you. I suggest that 
you do not sell your home and that you hold your stock which is left until February 
21st or 22nd and then sell it out. Your great trouble is: anxiousness to get ahead 
before the time-is ripe. Thus you and your husband take chances that under different 
conditions you never, would think of taking. If you keep on like that you will 
gradually, but surely lose all you have, possibly your husband even his position; then 
what? 
 
Take your time. It took the Lord six day to form the earth and heaven. Even he was 
unable to do it in a day. So you cannot expect me to give you stocks or a day when 
wheat runs up five cents. It makes no difference whether you trade in Chicago or, in 
Winnipeg or up on the Moon. Your rushing to get where you want to yet makes you 
overlook the most ordinary laws of safety. I may be too frank in may statements, but 
only a friend who wants to help tells the truth, even if it hurts. 
 
If you sit still, if you take things easy, think before your leap, nothing rash, nothing 
exited: no worry about the outcome- as soon as you make a commitment, i. e. calm 
your excited nerves and all will turn out well in the long run. Right now, I have an 
upswing in wheat, a comparatively small reaction around the 20th, sidewise up and 
down until we show a top the first few days in February. In that case you are fairly 
sure to be right when you make the commitment. 
 
I understand fully well your aim to have your daughter go through school, but in your 
actions I can see nothing will come of that unless both of you change your tactics of 
common sense procedure. You may take a chance and buy wheat yet for a few cents, 
but after all, a couple of cents are not going to make you. Your nervous condition 
requires healing; forgive your husband for his blunders; he meant well. Make your 
Christmas as cheerful as you can with the little you have, be happy,- forget. Then 
when the New Year rolls around, say about the 7th of January, you may pick up some 
wheat and even borrow some money on to do so, but, please do not overbuy either, in 
 
- 98 -

--- PAGE 124 of 260 ---

case of a little reaction! and then by February 4 or 5 you have some profits if my 
forecast proves right. 
 
Keep your chin up, straighten up and all will yet well! Sincerely yours, 
Here are now a few rules that may be deducted from this biography: 
 
1.  Trade alone with your own funds; "many cooks spoil the broth." 
 
2.  Study before you trade-and not after.  When you have lost Study the comments on 
the market,                                        get your  money,   what  is   the use  of  making  
charts  afterwards? works on movements on the market which cost but $10 or $20. 
Compared to the lass of $400.00 as was incurred by this party spending a ten or 
twenty dollar bill means little, no use going to the doctor when . . . 
 
3.  Do not expect to make money as fast as you can lose it. When you lose $400.00 in 
wheat in 3 months, you can reckon that with much less funds to operate with 
thereafter, combined with the nervous strain, with the fear to lose the balance too, you 
are at great disadvantage. 
 
4.  Trade with the ida of making normal profits, the same as you expect to make in 
any other business. A builder of a house may put $15,000.—into it and he sells it after 
it is completed for $16,000.—and. is glad to make 7%  on his investment   Do not  
expect   that  one   lot  of  wheat brings   funds; enough  after closing the  deal  that 
you afterwards  can  buy two lots  and a pyramid that way.   Nothing of that kind.  
Anyone who expects that, m far as I can judge, is starting wrong already. 
 
5. The idea that, Winnipeg may be better than Chicago or London better than Kansas 
City is not correct either. If you know one market and know it well, you may just as 
well trade in that to the exclusion of others. There are times of quiet and dullness in 
any market, the periods of rest before the push or down. 
 
6.  The attempt to use markets to make money in a hurry for some other purposes 
which require fulfillment such as paying taxes is utterly disastrous as a rule.   A lady 
in Louisville not long ago tried to make tax money and took a loss of exactly $500, in 
Steel.   The set purpose, the obstinacy with which this purpose is gone after prevents 
you to look dear, to judge right There is the rush: I have to make that much by that 
and that time. 
 
7.  The winners usually are those who don't need the money badly.   They can wait for 
a move.   Of course, if they have no “direction"   they   are   oftentimes   wrong  too.    
Our case shows that  this  lady held on eight years to her stock.   Only-certain 
astrological laws could have pointed at direction. 
 
8.     The usual,   normal   business  laws   that   every  successful business-man uses 
and applies to his business are not useful to gauge  market  action.   The  worst  
offenders  as  far as  I have found out are doctors and, strange to say also lawyers who 
are supposed to have all the laws on their finger tips. I surely know very few lawyers 
who have stock or wheat laws in their grasp. Nature is very little constructive; it 
sorely always destroys what it builds.  The fine summer flowers are gone with the first 
frost. 
 
- 99 -

--- PAGE 125 of 260 ---

9.  The statement of the lady to just want to make $20 or $30, or at least something is 
worth investigating. Here she shows that she is satisfied with very little. Now; we 
should know-that moves are taking-time-to develop. A bull movement starts and lasts 
a long time. A bear movement does the same. You may recall the man I pictured this 
Spring who was going to sleep, who wakes up once more and then really and truly 
falls to sleep, dreaming- all sorts of deep dreams until he wakes up Thanksgivings 
Day. It. came to pass.   The man I was then talking about was the stock market. You 
then might have thought I was joking.  This is not my habit. I may be once in a while 
a little clumsy in my expressions, but I talk around the picture which I try to explain 
so long until I feel it is completed. 
 
10.  The purpose of my articles is primarily to give a general picture of expected 
market action. The lady states correctly that occasionally something goes sour. We are 
dealing with the most difficult subject anyone could approach: trying to read the 
future. We have a patient, the stock market and we attempt to be the doctor.   Our 
patient does not talk or explain to us what ails him if anything does ail him.  In fact he 
has rosy cheeks, jumps around like a-deer rollicking, when he is just on the verge of a 
deadly illness (compare the wonderful  big movements  between  March  1st and 
March 20th, 1937 and again between mid-July and mid-August.) When on the other 
hand he is nearly dead, when he has completely collapsed, then he suddenly becomes 
healthy again, when newspapers and others cannot see any thing but further misery. 
He rises like the dead of the Bible; simply walk away is if never anything had  been 
wrong.   This  occurred  around Thanksgiving 1937.   In our work we are not only 
trying to define the -health conditions of the patient "market", but even all his other 
feelings such as happiness, which  are also expressed  in market movements by so-
called "gaps".  We try for the minutest expressions of person:  Stock or wheat market. 
You just imagine for a moment that you as a person would be told in advance a month 
or a year prior that you do most likely this or that on a certain day and then when the 
time conies around, circumstances would force you to do that thing.  What would you 
say to that? 
 
No doubt, the story of this family would fit a score of our readers. I believe such a 
case is more instructive to you than any biography of a famous successful man. Let us 
remain within our own circle and try to assist one another of what to do and what not 
to do when trading. I believe that the lady in writing this long letter-has done a great 
service to thousands of readers of our magazine. Many thanks to her courage of 
opening her heart and speaking out what she could not say to anyone of her narrow 
circle who most likely would ridicule her. Nobody will ever know her, there are lots 
of them in every little town that are in the very some boat. 
 
 
- 100 -

--- PAGE 126 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for April 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
 
 
IN THE last month's issue                                    I 
stated that April 1st should be watched for stocks. I expect a decline to develop on 
April 1st that is sharp, swift and far-reaching. It should last until about April 11th. 
Nearly three quarters of the gain we made during February should now be wiped out. 
Distribution we had nearly all of March, the late comers have been able to get all the 
stocks they wanted and therefore we now can expect that they have to hold the bag 
once more for a little while. After the low is made, around April 11th, a small rally 
should ensue that should be slow but steady until around the 24th of the month, 
followed by a renewed sell-off into the following month. 
 
Wheat should act about the same as stocks this month. The decline that started mid-
March should keep on into April and come to a halt around the 11th, possibly only by 
the 14th of the month. From then on we should rally slowly without much excitement. 
When, we look back to February 4th or 5th 1938 (at the time of this writing, January 
8th, we just merely started the big parade), prices must look pretty high up there and 
as we come down into April 11th to 14th prices must look pretty bad then, bad 
enough to make everyone blue once more. But then it appears as if we are at a bottom 
from which prices should rise once more, continuing to do things all over again, the 
old ups and downs, brought about by planetary forces. 
 
FOOD FOR THOUGHT ABOUT STOCKS AND MANY OTHER THINGS 
 
Back in 1903 a book was published, called: History of Egypt. It contains some 
fourteen volumes, with about three hundred pages per volume, fully illustrated. It was 
a limited edition of one thousand copies for England and U. S. A. 
 
 
- 101 -

--- PAGE 127 of 260 ---

Each set contained the name of the buyer in gold letters. Who do you think bought 
such books and for what purpose? I really do not know how these volumes were 
placed on the market, but, at any rate, calf bindings, gold trimmings, name printed on 
it, the general make-up etc. spells high price. A thousand copies do not go far if 
placed throughout the English speaking countries especially if the schools of higher 
learning each buy a copy and the better libraries each acquire a copy. My set bears a 
good Irish name of the original owner. It never was read. Not one single page was cut 
open. Brand new, except at the time I bought it at an estate auction it was thirty-two 
years old. Like the other privately sold copies it must have found a nook in the library 
of some wealthy individual for decorative purposes. It evidently answered its purpose 
marvellously then, but it actually came into use as soon as I had invested a fifty dollar 
bill in it. Incidently, touching on opportunities, I was able to pick up another set just 
recently at some other auction. This one had five leaves cut open, indicating that the 
original owner at least had a "peep" at what he bought and probably the contents were 
not to his liking, he redecorated his library once more. 
 
Such valuable boks for astrologers are hard to get. The ones who can afford to buy 
them have no use for them, the others cannot afford them, except when they become 
obsolete, seemingly out of date, new discoveries having been made by the scientists. 
 
As is the case with me, everything I touch or look at, I attempt to put to use for 
marked movements. Some time ago I collected and pressed some 500 various leaves 
of. trees and shrubs and studied their contours, trying to see whether or not certain 
ones have the shape of the stock trend for 1934 or for 1935 or the shape of the wheat 
trend for 1923. The maple leaf, set in. a certain angle shows very nicely the stock 
movement from March to November 1937. 
 
We don't want to get off the subject though. A day or two before an important 
auction, they hold what they call an exhibition. At such time you have a chance to 
look at the many items which are put up at the auction. I looked over the set and saw 
immediately some pictures which, I was sure, looked like movements of stocks. A 
king sitting at a small table on a chair, opposite a harp player. The strings of the harp 
reminded me of my chart lines. The curved back reminded me of a top and a zig-
zagging decline. The arms he held out to play the harp reminded me of the gaps that 
are made in stocks. The man bending over did not mean anything to me at that time, 
although I found it strange that he would be pictured in that book. After I had 
acquired the set, I went about and photostated several pictures to the size of my two 
ellipses which are well known to readers who have my work "Time Factors". 
Astounding results were obtained. 
 
 
 
 
- 102 -

--- PAGE 128 of 260 ---

The picture in the Hall of Harps, in the fifth tomb of the Eastern kings reduced to the 
size of my ellipses fitted the movements of stocks or of wheat wonderfully. The hands 
forming resistance or a gap was made there, when placed over a chart. The periphery 
of the harp formed resistance, the table formed a period of sidewise movement the 
small stick carried by the king was the beginning of an important move and the anus 
of the king also formed gaps as well as resistance depending upon the time they were 
reached. The picture of course, had to be laid at a certain angle to start with at a low 
or at a high and many laws of application had to be known in order to use them 
properly. Hundreds of people might try to lay such a picture over a stock or wheat 
chart and get nothing of it that would be useful. 
 
Thus we can see that these ancient Egyptians, instead of writing a Bible with 
hundreds of characters in it, wrote1 their astrology in pictures. They made them 
permanent in tombs and other places for someone of a later generation to discover 
their meaning.   I do not think it is possible for any astrologer who devotes his time to 
make astrological charts and interpret them for people is ever able to get beyond a 
certain limit. Text books and text book laws are alright. They have their place in the 
universe like every thing else. They are the beginning, the alpha. The beta to me 
seems to be stock charts of wheat charts, which register the day to day movement of 
the life of wheat or of a stock. You quickly will notice how fickle they are. Aspects 
make them that way. This month wheat may move down ten cents and up eight cents 
right thereafter, while at some period of another month the movement may not 
 
- 103 -

--- PAGE 129 of 260 ---

amount to more than a cent and a half. When we take out the high and low spots of 
such a chart and investigate the conditions of the planets for that time, using common 
sense, we find many times absolute repetitions of positions. For example, a couple of 
years ago, wheat made tops and bottoms every time Mars passed 12° 16' of any sign.  
It did-not matter whether Jupiter was in trine to some planet or Mercury in square to 
one or any other such combination. What mattered was: wheat declined until Mars 
reached 12.16 and it rallied until Mars reached 12.16. You may say: this is a funny 
astrology. Others may say: this is simple. However, when you get busy studying when 
this will happen again or where this is going to repeat, you will find great difficulties, 
although it can be done.     
 
 
 
But one has  to wade  through  so many  sub-jects, even as to go into the tombs of the 
Egyptian kings to find the laws. 
 
There was a picture in the book underneath which is written: The twelve stages in the 
Life of the Sun and the twelve forms throughout the day. (see illustration). We find no 
explanation with it in the book, except that it says in a foot note: From the ceiling of 
the Hall of New  Year at Edfu. 
 
 
 
 
- 104 -

--- PAGE 130 of 260 ---

We find that the picture represents a human form looking to the left, standing on its  
feet, bent over; the arms reach the ground on the other side. Below the trunk part we 
find twelve pictures, a stock ticker!! on the left, the ribbon or stock tape roiling out of 
it a handy pair of scissors at the end, customers and customers' men standing on the 
tape, a skipper, and an odd looking figure in a circle in the center. We find 
hieroglyphs on top and bottom margin. 
 
In a previous article I have hinted that a day  in the Bible is not a day as we know it.    
Here, in 'Egyptian astrology we have the same. What they call: the twelve stages of 
the life of the Sun and its twelve, forms Throughout the Day, means the cycle. And 
because the picture of the man represents a cycle, we have to absolutely get away 
from the idea: a day is  24 hours. 
 
In Bible Astrology as well as in Egyptian.-. Astrology, a day is a cycle of a planet and 
the cycle is dependent in its length upon the rotation of the planet. Therefore, when 
last month I stated that wheat makes the form of a man when charted during February 
to April, 1938, and stocks will do the same tiling but a month later, then we have gone 
through a cycle as soon as it is completed. It starts with the hand and end at the feet. 
The people call it from "tip to toe"; astrologers better figure from tip of the finger to 
heel of the foot. 
 
In as much as this subject is very difficult and requires a lot of thinking, concentrating 
and, what is most important, an actual, visible example, I had to delay this article for 
quite some time. There was no such picture developing in any market that would 
resemble the bending man. We had a Scorpio last year followed by "the jitters" as one 
of my students likes to call the sign of Aquarius, but we did not have a man as yet. 
One is developing from here on (written January, 6th, 1938). By the time you will get 
to read this article, he is nearly completed, except to his legs. But they should also 
come. Just watch closely. The feet astrologically are measured downward and not 
upward. Thus, the end of a cycle or of a DAY is never at a top, but always at a 
bottom, another important law that you must remember. 
 
In the human body we can recognize the arms, the head, the breast, the navel, the 
pubis bone and the back also the feet. The wheat or stock movements of this period 
should bring forth these points distinctly, and they should become turning points. 
Therefore, if we have the anatomy of man, we can easily fix the exact days (calender 
days) when these points must (not should) be reached, provided we know the size of 
the man. In the last issue I have hinted that, the person formed in the stock chart is a 
female and that this female is pregnant and that twins should be born to it. Later on in 
the year, if you watch closely, you will see that two babies are going to be born to that 
form. Babies are small, so will be the moves. Therefore, if my analysis is right, no 
bull movement of great extent can develop after that, only babies. Let us see "what 
the- various agencies that the public claims "make" the market are going to do,, the 
big money men and the government controlling agencies. I doubt if all their efforts, 
all their forces and control can produce in stocks anything but two babies, for the 
balance of this year, each of them having arms and feet. Unfortunately, the last baby 
has a pair of very long- feet... Each one of these babies has arms, a head, a breast, a 
navel, a back and feet. I like the arms, but I am always somewhat scared of the feet. 
 
 
- 105 -

--- PAGE 131 of 260 ---

If you wish to check yourself a real-to-goodness man, make yourself a chart of wheat 
during the Russian-Japanese war, 1904-1905.* I believe that one is the most perfect 
specimen that wheat ever made. It lasted nine months. People then blamed it on the 
war of Russia and Japan. I blame it on planetary positions. These men cycles as stated 
before vary in length. We can recognize small ones of a day's duration (if you plot 
each sale of wheat or of a stock as it occurs), of a weekly or a month, or even nine 
months. I have been able to recognize the fingers very quickly and then know from it 
the form that should develop. From other methods I know when they have to start and 
end. We can recognize whether the form is a female or a male form and 
experimenting will soon equip you with other knowledge of how to recognize things 
better. 
 
There are, of course, many other methods necessary to use, to interweave, that point 
to direction of trend from entirely different angles. All these have to be used when 
forming judgments and, as soon as we get "one-sided,'" we overlook interweaving 
cycles that come through other effects at times and we would be wrong. Due to this, 
most astrologers, when they attempt to forecast markets, get discouraged because a 
more contrary movement develops than what they expected according to their 
calculations. This is possible and very easily so. We constantly must guard against 
"misses." If we are wrong we must "jump," i; e., get out quickly before big losses 
ensue. Then we have to check, the cause of the trouble. It means little to sit for a 
month checking a certain high point that our own work did not show to be a high 
point. The main part of such work is to check history. Charts are available very far 
back of the- daily high and low movements of wheat for example or of the market as a 
whole. New stocks are not good for analysis that way. They are too young. You do 
not know what they have done before. They are just born a few years ago; they have 
no history. But stocks, such as WX, X, GL, etc., who are 40 and more years old have 
something to show for themselves. 
 
The idea of most of my articles is not to educate you to forecast markets, but to 
illustrate to you that marker motion is depending upon planetary movements. You 
have, most likely, not the time to devote all your time to such work. Our battle is won 
as soon as you say: astrological forecasts of markets should be better than forecasts 
based on dividends, kilowat hours, automobile output, speeches, droughts, rain, blast 
furnaces, earnings, inflationary prospects, and other so-called "economic 
monstrosities" that other people use. 
 
For many years I have not looked at any earning statement of a corporation, I don't 
know even what some companies produce, whether they make shingles or apple cider; 
my radio is put of order, so I can't hear a speech; it rains quite often in the Middle 
West; I don't know whether or not stocks pay dividends, because dividends mean 
divvy; you take the dividend, the other fellow the points; I remember that blast 
furnaces are somewhere around Cleveland and they are extinguished when stocks are 
close to the bottom. 
 
In spite of all that ignorance, we have quite a few years of record that we can catch 
movements of stocks and wheat and other commodities. 
 
You should benefit by our work and you should reciprocate by telling your friends 
about us and our magazine. Don't hide it in a drawer and read it when no one is 
 
- 106 -

--- PAGE 132 of 260 ---

around! There is plenty of room to accommodate your friends. If they don't believe, 
show them facts, show them numbers of our issues and compare them with what 
actually happened long after it was written. You will make solid friends that way for 
yourself as well as for us. 
 
One hand washes the other! I know, your word is at least worth three readers for us.   
Let's see you use it! 
 
The other day I. received a big shock from my news dealer. I asked him how many he 
sells. "Oh," he says, "three or four. It don't seem to sell. Too deep for them," (meaning 
the public). He showed me a pile of picture magazines and said: "Look, of these I sell 
300 in a week.    They go like hot-cakes."    I merely smiled and thought: It's a funny 
world, they like easy things, pictures, funny faces, clowns, things to make them forget 
their troubles, of which they have plenty, things to look at today only to be forgotten 
completely tomorrow. The caterers to the masses have to have quantity production, 
cheap prices, things ephemeral, thoughts ephemeral. 
 
Readers of our magazine first of all have to think. No one can read our magazineto merely 
pass his time while riding the subways. He has to concentrate, he has to have deep 
knowledge of matters that are so far removed from the brains of the average man that 
we may just as well consider ourselves completely removed from their sphere. 
However, actually due to this fact, we must not become one sided in such a way that 
we segregate ourselves from the masses too far, as I have had the opportunity to note 
of certain astrologers. They attempt to take a short-cut to solving laws. It cannot be 
done. We are forced to consider the masses, be cause they form the nucleus of motion 
on this earth. They are very slow. We may be miles away with our mind, but it pays to 
often come back to "earth." If we start to get eccentric, we make a grave error. 
 
 
 
Astrological Tablet Painted on the Ceiling of the First Tomb of the Kings to the West Thebes (Byban el 
Molouk) 
 
Today, I went for the second time to the Planetarium in New York City. The speaker 
explained the motion of the heavens very nicely and I enjoyed the whole show.  
 
 
- 107 -

--- PAGE 133 of 260 ---

Only one remark was made by him which I also read quite often in Flamarion's 
"Terres du Gel." He said: "The ancients thought the stars were simply holes in the 
sky." Well, if he only would know that "they" knew much more about the stars than 
he most likely ever will know, he would not have made such a statement. The ancient 
Babylonians, Persians, Ethiopians, not even to come up as far as the Greeks or 
Romans all had their Adam and Eve Story, exactly the same way as the biblical Adam 
and Eve shows. They not only knew the movements of Uranus or Pluto, but they also 
knew their effect upon the human being and upon the animals, plants, in short upon 
the world at large, a matter which we, as astrologers and students try to re-find. 
Astronomers have a perfect place in the universe and their main work consists, as far 
as I can judge, to figure very exactly the positions of the planets from clay to day. The 
other work, such as watching eclipses, figuring recurrance of comets, etc., is all right 
but of little use to us. From my study of the Bible I have discovered recently that, 
these ancients did not even need exact ephemerides. They had a way to ascertain 
definitely at which spot a planet has to become retrograde by following sequences, not 
of the places of retrograda-tion, but of the places which they called: Jacktan. Almo-
dad, Sheleph, Hazarmaret, etc., some relatives of Shem. 
 
Let us drift away from this thought now and touch on one more of great importance to 
parents. 
 
There are two types of people in this world: master and servant. This has nothing to 
do with the signs of the Zodiac but with some entirely different condition. The 
masters you find in all sorts of life, from the smallest to the tallest.    We have the 
single outstanding individuals who run business of billions of dollars all alone, having 
servants to do the detail work. We have among them all the average business men 
who own a business. We have the small candy store owner who is his own boss. 
Nobody has to tell him anything. He is the king of his place. He could not stand 
anyone above him. Never mind, how small he is, he rules his business. The small 
bootblack boy in the street who sells you a shine for a nickel is the independent 
business man. 
 
The other class, the servants, we recognize them easily. We have some very big 
people among them, running gigantic businesses, getting salaries of $100,000 and 
more at times. All salaried people belong to this class; all government employees 
belong there. Sailors and soldiers, workmen and laborers are included. 
 
They cannot work unless they are told what to do and then they do it well or not quite 
so well, depending upon their knowledge or willingness to work.    The big president 
of a large corporation cannot do any work unless the stockholders agree. He can be 
hired and fired like anyone else, except they call it: election of the president. In 
government employ when discharged, they call it: malfeasance in office or something 
of that order. At any rate, they can be hired and fired at the will of higher-ups if 
necessary. 
 
Of course, the master cannot be fired by himself, unless he decides to quit the 
business. However, in that such conditions are brought about by planetary aspects", 
hiring and firing occurs quite frequently among the employees that can be easier 
replaced by others. But, if higher up employees get into bad aspects, they sooner or 
later also will be looking for another position. Masters also get bad aspects. In this 
 
- 108 -

--- PAGE 134 of 260 ---

case the firing has to be done by some outside agency, unless he quits the business 
and gets out of it himself which he seldom does. The outside agency is: debts and 
bankruptcy. Very few employees get bankrupt. A huge number of masters do go 
bankrupt and you have but to read the petitions to be convinced. He then has to start 
anew as an employee until he has managed to save up enough to start all over again, 
provided his planetary aspects help him. 
 
Therefore, we may say: masters in an astrological sense are superior to servants. Both 
go down into the ditch at times. They usually come up again, although the station   of 
life may have to be lowered temporarily. 
 
Both are essential and among both are people who make large amounts of money and 
people who just can vegetate. If both are essential, both are equally important to 
society or as friends, although we have to talk differently to each one when 
conversing. 
 
I have a case in mind of how we can recognize these two types in youth. When we see 
children play policeman and robber, they usually have a chief policeman and a chief 
robber among them.  He, on each side is regarded as the head of each group. Take all 
the robbers who don't want to be changed into policemen as being later on in life the 
independent business men; take all the policemen of the game to later on become the 
servants; and the chiefs among them take to become the outstanding types of them. I 
have dissected many cases in this respect and I found that this rule holds. Therefore 
children who like to be robbers of a game should be slowly coached to become 
independent business men. Attempt to guide the youngsters who have a tendency to 
play policeman toward its proper channel in later life. There are very few in-between, 
i. e., those who either play robber or policeman. 
 
Now one more; then we close. 
 
If you are not sure whether you are born while the Sun is above the horizon or at the 
time of the day that the Sun is below the horizon, take the following rule: 
 
Clasp your hands together so that the thumbs come to lie over each other and one 
hand is embracing the other. If done, hold that position and look at your thumbs. 
 
1.  If your right hand thumb is on the top and the left hand thumb therefore below the 
right thumb, then you are born with the Sun above the horizon. 
 
2.  If your left hand thumb is on the top and the right hand thumb below the left hand 
thumb, then you are born with the Sun below the horizon. 
 
In that at critical times, especially those born m the winter or in mid-summer, when 
days are short or long respectively, we would find trouble with those people that are 
just born with the Sun in the 1st or 12th House or in the 7th or 6th House. They are 
the ones who specially should check this statement. Others who do not know their 
time of birth can make sure of within half of the day anyhow. 
 
 
- 109 -

--- PAGE 135 of 260 ---

[OCR] WHEN ITS TIME TO SEE A DOCTOR
Go afd dee hirt early!

The letter reproduced below arrived
January 7, 1958. Name and place of origin
are deleted, It might have been yourself!
If yottt iineds is fot it a too advanced
itapte, get ih toweh with me for ativice on
matkets, for forecasts of stocks or wheat,
or for works on markets: they operate on
definite laws thit dte hot printed in books,

January T, 193%

ore
FE t
suggestion may be beipfal in the coming
noe
Sincerely,

George Bayer, 3216 Crescent St.,
Long Island City, N. Y.

- 110-

--- PAGE 136 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for May 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
 
 
A T THE time of this writing, (March 14, 1938), Mr. Hitler went into Austria and 
took possession of it. He now is ruler of Austria. He makes this country a part of his 
German Reich. In other words, in astrological expressions: A planet moved on in the 
Zodiac, reached a certain point in that Zodiac and, from then on he becomes ruler 
over a Zodiac and, from then on he becomes ruler over a large area of degrees and 
minutes of the Zodiac besides, those degrees and- minutes and seconds he is ruling 
already. Such conditions we find in the story of the Pharaos who began to rule over 
the Israelites. We all know who is meant by Pharao, but few can guess who is meant 
by Israelites or Jews. 
 
At any rate, we are trying to delve into the future as much as our little brains permit us 
in that we attempt to interpret planetary motions of the next few months to define 
approximately what should happen. This man Hitler politically is now the-most 
prominent figure of the present world—as Pharao. Nobody dares to act contrary to his 
wishes. England, France, the two countries vitally interested in "what's he going to do 
next?" send notes of protest to him, rather supplications to keep still, to be lenient 
with them, not to try to take it all ... 
 
Like Pharao who had a strong ally in the Ethiopians whose ruler was Jethro, the 
priest, so has Hitler a strong acquiescing ally in Mussolini, Italy. This Jethro 
according to the "Legends of the Jews" placed Moses while he was passing through 
his country into a pit for 7 years because he was an enemy to Pharao who tried to 
liberate the Hebrews from Pharao's servitude. If history is going to repeat itself, arid 
especially so, if we should happen to be at present in the same cycle, i. e., the Pharao-
Jethro cycle, then 1 say: It is possible that some politically important person 
belonging to the side of France and England in the not far distant future visits Italy on 
a pleasure trip and he will be detained there so as to prevent, the execution of certain 
plans. However, following the story and events that occurred with Jethro and Moses, 
he will convince Italy that even Pharao is not immune to leprosy, sickness and even 
make friendship with them and obtains his release and marries into the family. 
 
 
- 111 -

--- PAGE 137 of 260 ---

At that time there was no war except a little side,-issue., King Kinkanos was fighting 
the rebels and—lost (see Legends of the Jews, part II, page 284). This side-issue may 
be compared to the present Spanish upset, Loyalists fighting against the Rebels. 
Let us now look at the psychology of the traders who buy and sell stocks and 
commodities, such as wheat, cotton, copper or others. The day after Hitler went into 
Austria, cotton opened off 15 points, copper, the most important war material was off 
5 points. Wheat, however, rose with a gap upward of 2 1/2 points, opening at the top 
Saturday, March 12, 1938, selling off slowly to the close. The Monday following 
(date of writing, March 14, 1938), wheat opened down with a gap of 2c in Liverpool, 
the same in Winnipeg and Chicago. It closed off 3c in Winnipeg. During the two 
weeks previous wheat in Winnipeg had dropped 10c and now another 3c makes it 13c 
off from the peak. All this happened on so-called "War news." Newspapers in their 
write-ups- have constantly a3 "second thought"—War; things look quite upsetting at 
this stage, but why should we get a "war just now? Planetary conditions do not 
indicate one and we can't Very well get a war without the "higher-ups," i. e., the 
planets forming the proper conditions for it. Of course, when you look into the current 
ephemeris, you will note that Mars and Venus went into new signs just at that time, 
but they do that quite often and nothing happens. 
 
Looking over further my forecasts of stocks and wheat as well as cotton for the year, 
nothing much exciting should happen except we call a slowly declining market (with 
proper ups and downs) the excitement. In a way it will be, because everybody expects 
the contrary. 
 
Why should prices go off? If it is not to be a war, there should be abundant crops, 
much more than anyone expects. It is still too far away at the present time to know 
actual crop results, because most of the crops are not even seeded. But time will show 
that we should have good crops, especially, when we go back once more to our 
Pharao-Jethro story and note that the Jews worked day and night at "hard labor" to 
produce, to make bricks by the millions; the latter, I believe translated means: they 
make soap bubbles for traders by the millions. Of course, when we read closer, we 
find that the Jews first got about a cent for a brick, later on they got nothing for their 
productions. 
 
This deduction may apply to stock and commodity prices pure and simple, as meaning 
that price levels should come downward instead of upward (subject to rallies, of 
course), but not only that. It may also mean that labor costs have to come downward 
so as to give more employment to the multitude. In the biblical time it was not a few 
Jews, selected from many, but all the children of Jacob, the children of all the seventy 
souls that migrated to Egypt. So, we may just as well include all the people who are 
out of work that they somehow or other will be given an opportunity to work and earn 
their living. Wage scales may be figured from the brick story. 
 
I hope I am not getting too much involved with the Bible. However, since I have 
given you in this and previous articles a start, I find it much easier to do explaining 
than ever before. Previously it has been so difficult to make logical statements in that 
logical statements as the world-at-large know them cannot be used for market 
interpretation. If this would not be true, wheat, on the news of Hitler's taking of 
Austria would have made a jump upward, instead of making one just to the side 
people did not expect. So would have copper, cotton, and other war materials. 
 
- 112 -

--- PAGE 138 of 260 ---

As to stocks for the month of May, we have indications of a turn for the better. For the 
2nd of the month a low is indicated and slowly, but gradually price levels ought to 
rise which should/not let up yet as we end the month. A good many small set-backs 
are due in between, calling for a zig-zagging upward movement which is, as a rule, 
not even good for trading purposes, but simply for holding, with buying during the 
first few days of May and holding through the month into the month of June. 
 
Wheat should be a little more lively during the month of May. We most likely had a 
rally toward the end of April. As we enter into May a small reaction should set in 
from May 3rd to May 12th. May 12th should give a signal for a strong advance, 
culminating May 17th. We should remain around the high levels till May 23d, 
swinging back and forth. From May 23rd to 27th a decline is shown followed by a 
sidewise movement the balance of the month. This sidewise movement, however, I do 
not consider a period of accumulation for higher levels afterwards, but as being 
further distribution, getting ready for more decline after a couple of days of "false 
move" contrary to the actual trend indicated during the first few days of June. 
 
 
- 113 -

--- PAGE 139 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for June 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
 
 
FORECASTS OF STOCK AND WHEAT MARKET 
 
While the months of April and May indicated a period of depressed prices for stocks, 
the month of June indicates as if we would get back some of the hope and discard 
some fear that existed. Of course, the general situation is not what it should be when 
we have prosperity, but, on the other hand, when we speak of normal levels, we have 
but to go over history of stock prices to quickly discover that "normal levels' 'are 
fairly low levels. Times like 1929 are not in the calendar so far. The Dow Jones 
averages may be called normal in their level when they play between 90 and 110. In 
other words, during April and May this year we just had reached the normal level of 
stock prices. To go below the 90 level in Dow Jones averages would get us into the 
sub-normal. 
 
Whoever bought stocks around mid-April when I showed a low in the stock forecast 
may figure to run into some profits this month which, as far as I can judge should be 
taken before the month gets too far advanced. In other words, I cxpect to top in stock 
prices again mid-June even though we should have just started in to go nicely toward 
improvement. 
 
Traders would do well to watch closely the action of commodities, such as wheat, 
cotton, hides, etc. In case they fail to improve with stocks during June and either 
move sidewise or even start to decline then we can rather quickly take this as a cue 
that a reversal in stock prices is also due and act accordingly. While the real decline 
which is expected falls due in July, nevertheless the "bending" over, the so-called 
“roll-over" would also indicate what is to follow. 
 
I woud liquidate stocks beginning with the tenth of the month. From the first to the 
10th we still should have an uptrend, a fairly rapid one at that, followed by a week of 
distribution and a down move which should be temporarily arrested on the 22nd of the 
month of June.  
 
- 114 -

--- PAGE 140 of 260 ---

From that time on we can expect a reversal upward till the 29th which day should 
form the last high for the month, beginning to decline sharply from then on into July, 
1938. 
As far as wheat is concerned astrological laws show that we should get higher prices 
the first three days of June and make a top. From then on a gradual descent should 
begin which should not terminate until some time in July. 
 
The decline is not shown as being fast or rapid, but rather slow and one that gets "on 
your nerves." 
 
In that commodities in general indicate gradually lower levels or—hoping for the 
best—holding the levels as we have at present, (written April 14t11, 1938), it is very 
unlikely that stocks would lead the parade all alone. We have occasionally times when 
commodities move just 100% contrary to stocks (see April 20th to June 2nd, 1934, 
when wheat rose 30c and stocks dropped 30 points in the averages), but this period 
here does not appear to belong to that class at all. 
 
On the other hand stocks, in particular rails and utilities have moved down so far that 
many touched the 1932 lows and when we recall the movements that followed in 
stocks from June, 1932, over to March, 1933, we have a fairly good picture of the 
movements which we can expect from here on. Let us call it a "stage of 
accumulation" at low levels, with hills and valleys between, none of them to amount 
to much. 
 
The hills and valleys might be caused by the "pump priming" in Washington as the 
newspapers like to call it. Of course, anticipating action quite some time ahead, it is 
my conclusion that this "pump priming" is due to bring later on a real explosion 
upward and especially so in commodities, followed afterwards by stocks in rapid 
succession. But such is not indicated this year. To the contrary, I have some distress 
selling indicated yet before this "explosion" should occur. 
 
I am saying this because some of the readers who want to buy for keeps (investors) 
may be too soon making their purchases; To them I would say: wait until things look 
real bad, until newspapers write: we are in a bear market and everything is gloom. 
Such time is the best time to buy stocks for keeps. 
 
Active traders should use strength around June 10-15 to act in stocks, but in wheat 
and other commodities a little earlier action may be required. 
 
 
- 115 -

--- PAGE 141 of 260 ---

Market Analysis for July 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
 
 
IN THIS article we try to bring a few examples that even though rather remote from 
the field of markets, nevertheless they bring home certain ideas that are of 
importance. 
 
Example 1. Not long ago I bought a camera with which to take some pictures. It was 
one with," whose mechanism I was not acquainted. The clerk demonstrated it to me, 
but such demonstration meant little to me; I could not retain it. I relied upon the 
descriptive matter that came with it. I thought that when I see things in writing, I can 
grasp them quickly. However, I studied back and forth, compared the given numbers 
of the pictures contained in the literature with the actual camera, etc., but felt pretty 
shaky about whether or not I could operate that machine. I took a chance and used 5 
films before ever developing one to find out if the thing was productive. To my 
astonishment I fared pretty well. Out of 40 pictures taken I had 20 good ones and 20 
dead ones. I was supposed to push down two triggers instead of one when taking one 
picture. I had only pushed down one for the first picture and for the next picture I 
pushed down the other. Why they put on this machine a dummy trigger and a regular 
trigger I have not found out yet. Nothing was said about it in the pamphlet that would 
have explained the operation. In fact, just while writing about it, I consulted this 
"valuable" booklet once more and it still sounds like Greek to me. 
 
Example 2. Last summer I bought in some department store an attachment for 
windows. The purpose of it was to keep the window partly shut without anyone from 
the outside being able to push it open. This instrument has several parts, also some 
screws. I studied the "ways of attaching it," but it never was fastened because I could 
not understand the meaning of how to go about to make the thing operate. 
 
What is the purpose of the companies which issue such "explanations of how to use 
it" when an average person cannot understand its meaning? Admitted, I am not gifted 
with great mechanical skill like one who is handy all around, but I believe I can 
understand sentences and their meanings if they were written in plain everyday 
language. 
 
- 116 -

--- PAGE 142 of 260 ---

Now, using these ideas marketwise, we just glance over the various opinions that are 
given to the public every day by newspapers, magazines for finance and others about 
markets. In one paragraph they tell you why the market should go down, in the next 
they state the reasons why it should go up and so they keep on giving reasons for this 
and for that. When you are through reading, you know just as much as you knew 
before. They tell you in general explanations that the market could go either way and 
leave it to you completely to weigh off on which side the overweight lies. The reason 
for such opinions is that their line of thought runs parallel with that of the average 
trader: he does not know. 
 
Of course, when we write something about markets, we do not pretend that we know 
it all. We know too well how little we know about the causes of movements. 
However, we are not afraid to state that we take our wisdom from sources which are 
as old as Methusela; we don't use "new tricks." We stick to the trodden road whereon 
former generations have stepped. We use the cycle's as shown in the Bible. In case 
one of our cycles should turn out to be a bad misinterpretation of the laws, there may 
be a time approaching when we can get results without misinterpretation. The readers 
remember that in the fall of 1936 this magazine stated that our laws indicated a major 
bull-market top for stocks March 9th, 1937, and that the Dow Jones averages were to 
be found around the 198 level. In the March issue of 1937, we wrote that from here 
(March top 1937) we are due to decline according to our laws until November, 1937, 
and the day is to be Thanksgiving Day, 1937.   In the November issue of 1937, we 
stated that our laws indicate a top in wheat for the entire year of 1938 as due in 
January, 1938. Aside of these important turning points we also were able to locate 
many minor ones, such as February 23rd, 1938, for stocks, May 2, 1938, for stocks, 
etc. We even had the direction of the turn correctly. I am saying this especially, 
because some readers cannot understand why in the world a man first of all can have 
something wherewith a future date can be located on which date should make people 
change their mind as to buying or selling. Not only that! They still could understand if 
we were trying to figure out that the small candy store at the corner could last another 
month before he would have to dose shop on account of competition. The indications 
in this case would be rather clear to them. A big store has opened right next to him. 
But, to try and figure out what the biggest brains in this country, the financial wizards 
of the world, are deciding at special meetings, behind closed doors, while he is sitting 
in a suburb of New York, reading the Legends of the Jews or the Bible, that tops it all. 
 
Yesterday, May 5th, I was up at the Empire State Building for a special purpose. I 
wanted to look down upon the little dots, the small pinheads 1200 feet below, the ones 
who buy and sell stocks. "They" seemingly make "markets" through their buying and 
selling. At least, they think so. I remember quite often back in my school days, when 
we studied physics, that we used to make small balls of the soft inside of elderberry 
branches, that we put them in a heap and then approached these balls with a hard 
rubber stick, which was rubbed before.. As we came closer, one after the other of 
these small balls would jump on the stick, as if by magic, until they were all hanging 
on it. 
 
Let us now apply this same idea to the little men' in Wall Street! They may be sitting 
right at the tape, or in brokerage offices throughout the country, they may be even in 
China or Ceylon or anywhere on this little planet, called earth. Something, as if by 
magic makes them begin to buy after a low is made in the market. Gradually more 
 
- 117 -

--- PAGE 143 of 260 ---

and more "jump aboard" until they are all "hooked." I forgot to mention that after a 
while, the magic of the rubber rod disappears (it is called electricity) and the small 
balls drop off again, one after the other. The same is true with the little men who 
trade. After a while they sell and we get what is called a down move. This attraction 
or repulsion toward stocks or commodities occurs at various intervals; sometimes they 
are long, at other times they are short. This time element is what we all are looking 
for. Some people attempt to use charts trying for repetitions of cycles. It has been 
shown that formations repeat -periodically. They are wise and clever. Of course, 
without additional facilities charts are very deceiving as some friends, the chart 
readers, have found out quite often to their sorrow. However, to keep charts of stocks 
or commodities is the first step toward improvement. Looking at the tape all day 
apparently is called by many traders a "good day's work." The ones with a good 
memory can tell you the high, low and close of nearly all the active stocks. But, does 
this help them any? The trader can't do much with the "has-been." He would like to 
know the high and low of "tomorrow." 
 
It has been stated in several works on Kepler that he studied astrology for years. At 
that time it was necessary for astrologers to figure planets' positions themselves; so he 
was also an astronomer. His teacher, Tycho de Brahe was a well-known astrologer 
also. It is further stated that he finally gave up astrology in disgust because he could 
not find what he wanted and from then on devoted his time to finding new stars. Well, 
my opinion about Mr. Kepler, however great he may be considered as a scientist, is: it 
was just too bad for Mr. Kepler that he arrived in front of a big wall, where it said: 
stop. I have found myself several times at such places, but in a roundabout way I 
could continue. 
 
On the other hand, commentaries by writers who wrote two hundred years or later 
after a man has died are mere reports of a second-hand nature, picked up from other 
books, remodeled, added to suit conditions and published. So I really don't believe 
this statement 'at all. In fact, I know that whosoever begins the study of astrology and 
is able to overcome difficulties, such as getting the wrong; start, and survives the first 
three years with his studies he never will abandon it any more. The deeper he gets into 
the subject the more interesting it becomes, the less he can part. So I am sure Mr. 
Kepler knew astrology and stayed with it; the astronomical part of his achievements 
were mere incidental products of his astrological research work. 
 
With traders it is the same. The many who get burned in the markets stay away after 
the first failure. The average, trader lasts about two years in the street, some less. 
Those, who can survive the first two years, become the chronic traders who just 
simply can't do without trading. They may be out for a while to replenish their purse, 
but when accumulation is completed, they are right back. So why should Mr. Kepler 
have acted differently? Ask those who collect postage stamps! 
 
Stocks "looked" pretty good during June, at least they should have, (written May 6, 
1938), and whenever things look good, it is time to take in the sails. This should be 
true for the month of July, 1938. I believe stocks have reached a temporary high level 
in June. Talk on business improvements may be heard, some dividend actions may 
sound good, the outlook may become clearer and fear may gradually be dispersed. 
 
 
- 118 -

--- PAGE 144 of 260 ---

I would get out of stocks before it is too late. In fact June 29th should be the last 
chance day. Over the 4th of July unfavorable news should develop (may be some 
firecrackers explode) and a halt in the reaction should only come around the 8th of the 
month. This reaction could be quite drastic and should take a lot of enthusiasm away 
from traders again. But, whenever pessimism gets the upper hand in the market, it is 
time to buy back. Weakness around July 8th-9th should indicate a change of trend for 
the up side. This change of trend should only become a rally and approach 
approximately the levels of July 4th or those few days immediately preceding it. 
Furthermore, this rally should be swift and three little tops should come forth, one on 
the 19th, one on the 24th and one on the 31st of the month. Three tops in a row are 
dangerous. They spell: resistance. More of it in the August issue. 
 
Would sell stocks when entering July, would buy July 8th-9th and sell again on 
strength toward the end of the month, having no long position into August, 1938. 
 
Wheat: Indications point out that the main trend for wheat remains downward for 
quite some time. The probable movement for wheat during the month of July should 
be very similar to stocks. In fact, end of June should become a top or a corner, from 
which place we "jump off." 
 
The 8th or possibly the 9th should turn out to be a bottom, while the 31st of July 
should again prove to be a top. The three swings of this month should be quite 
substantial. 
 
- 119 -

--- PAGE 145 of 260 ---

Market Analysis; for August 1958 
By George Bayer 
 
W'HEN we sit together with friends on certain evenings a lot of talking goes on. One 
tells a story, the other one brings some other story of what has happened to him here 
or there, a third one knows something similar to that story too which happened to 
XYZ at that and that time. 
 
Very few fail to give complete descriptions of the events in that story, such as the 
date, the sort of weather that prevailed, the persons in the "show," their make-up in 
clothes, their feelings (happy, mad, sorry, excited), in short everything that goes with 
it to illustrate the past event thoroughly and painstakingly. 
 
Let us analyze what the whole thing is about! 
 
In order to obtain a better foundation, we should attempt to illustrate another phase 
that is common with chart readers, i. e., people who trade in stocks or commodities 
and keep a daily high and low chart of their performance. They try to figure out what 
should happen next from what has happened just a little while previously. They have 
discovered that, when we plot high and low prices of wheat each day, a certain 
definite picture can be developed. At times it looks like a mountain, at other times like 
an abyss, at again other times like Nebraska, i. e., flat. In fact, it would not be bad to 
take a cross-cut along the 40th degree, beginning with the mountains of Japan, the 
deeps of the Pacific, the Rocky Mountains, Nebraska, and so on. Lay the picture 
underneath a chart of wheat for several years back and find great similarities. The 
reason why this can be done is because both are natural conditions or events and not 
"man-made" affairs. The same cause that produced the mountains and the valleys is 
producing the ups and downs in wheat or stocks. 
 
It is the hardest thing attempting to get the average trader to believe such a thing. 
Newspapers and others walk miles out of their way so as not to touch on that subject 
of which they know nothing. Of course, when Mr. Dow came forth with his Dow 
theory a good many years ago, according to which the averages of rails must confirm 
the averages of the industrials or vice-versa, so as to indicate a definite change of 
trend, he actually abandoned all economics, all the laws that are holy and saint in 
Wall Street. By doing that he ignored all the car loading, all the electric output, all the 
dividends and kindred, used indicators as to what should come.    In other words,, he 
used astrology, without knowing it. I am not so sure that all the traders and statistical 
services including the newspapers would not drop Mr. Dow's theory like a hot potato 
if they only would have an inkling that it smells of astrology . . . 
 
If it is possible for the averages to make a high and this high can be recognized when 
one group of stocks refuses to push higher while the other one does push higher, and 
at the same time car loadings keep on increasing and dividends are poured out to 
stock holders at increasing speed and that these only stop, i. e., decrease at a time 
when prices are already much lower, of what value are these indicators I I just 
recently looked at one of these railroad car loading charts at a broker's office where it 
is posted conspicuously for all clients. I was trying to apply my laws to it, but results 
were absolutely zero. I wonder what the average trader can get out of it! 
 
- 120 -

--- PAGE 146 of 260 ---

I was trying to talk about chart readers and what they are after. They interpret the 
current picture from previous pictures. They know that the 1919 picture is similar to 
the 1937 picture. Therefore, they expect here a similar performance to what transpired 
from 1919 over to 1921. This is an interim of about 20 years. During this time we 
have had a brand-new crop of traders. The few that remain from the 1919 period 
surely do not over-weigh the new ones. The economic situation between 1919 and 
1937 is as different as the traders of the two periods. In 1919 the trader's name may 
have been Jones, while now Mr. Smith trades. In 1919 Europe's condition was 
chaotic; they just had emerged from the Great War. Here we have no war of such 
extent as the one of that period. Why then does the pattern of stocks and commodities 
look in 1937 like the one of 1919? Evidently the chart readers do not ask themselves 
that question; what they want to get is the trend through some conniving. They were 
not far off in their assumption as we now can see ourselves. But, what is the cause? 
This question can only be answered astrologically and no science, whatever you may 
call it can answer it. 
 
It is exactly this same reason why people can tell stories evenings of what happened 
to this man and to that man and such stories are so similar and distinct, that, unless 
you are sure it is a matter of another person, you would think it was yourself to whom 
that story or event happened. Here is the answer: Equal astrological conditions bring 
forth equal events. Surroundings or individuals do not matter. Water will make waves 
in the ocean as well as in an earthen pot. That is why you see occasionally people that 
look alike or very similar to each other and are not twins, either. They happen to be 
astrological equals, the same as the period of 1919 compared to 1937. 
 
When the story, tellers describe the events very carefully as to time, weather 
conditions, make-up, feelings of the persons in the story, they merely give you the 
location of all the planets at the time of the story, provided you know what the 
conditions mean. But enough of that. 
 
The stock market for August, 1938, is not all roses. What we should have gained 
during July we are apt to lose once more during this month. 
My indication for August in stocks show a top right on the first day of the month, a 
slow dribbling down-move till the 18-20th, a fairly sharp drop to follow until August 
22nd. From then on we should hold near the low until August 26th, on which day the 
August 22nd bottom could even be broken. From August 26th a rally is indicated to 
last up to Labor Day. 
 
Wheat indicates a top between August 3rd and 4th, followed by a slow decline to 
August 22nd and then a rally into September. 
The volume in trading both in stocks and commodities should be very small and little 
hope for increased volume on either side is evident from my work. People may begin 
to wonder how brokers can keep going to say nothing about the traders. But such 
periods are essential. 
 
Two dates in the near future should be watched: October 6-8, 1938, and around 
January 20th, 1939, at which time real fireworks ought to start a brand-new cycle. 
What to do in the meantime? Have patience! 
 
 
- 121 -

--- PAGE 147 of 260 ---

[OCR] hia dE
ee ee
a

hers
rrrsrrs bail
al

Mae
2

ita thee
HH rane

ceilinsaeisanee
—

Cf treet

- 122 -

--- PAGE 148 of 260 ---

September Market Analysis 
By George Bayer 
 
THE   markets   for    September, 1938, should bring quite a bit of excitement. 
 
 
 
The month should open with somewhat higher levels and prices should improve until 
the fourth of the month. From that time on a reversal should set in, gradually lowering 
the prices again. It may be termed a sagging market for about two weeks. Around the 
16-17th of the month a sudden event should lift prices sharply and they should 
continue so into the month following (October). From September 21st on until the end 
of the month some stagnation may be noticed at high levels, but as far as I can figure, 
better prices should be obtainable in the month to follow. 
 
Mid-September should be a good period to accumulate stocks for a quick run-up. 
 
Wheat: Wheat prices should have been lagging for quite some time. We may be 
around the 60c level in "wheat (written July 8th, 1938) or even a cent below that 
level. Wheat should have a rally the first few days of September together with stocks 
and then sell off once more to September 13th to 17th. These days should be 
favorable to cover short positions and buy the wheat which others wish to dispose of. 
This wheat would hold into October for a good rise. Let us not expect a thirty-cent run 
upward the way we might want it, but a rise, steady and gradually away from low 
levels. At low levels a five-cent rise is equal at high levels to a 15c rise, even a 20c 
rise. Thus, a 30c rise at high levels would mean approximately a 10c rise at low 
levels. This would bring us back to the June 1st, 1938, lows, provided we do decline 
between the present day and mid-September the extra ten cents. 
 
 
- 123 -

--- PAGE 149 of 260 ---

In. short, let us call mid-September a buying period for wheat according to 
astrological indications. 
 
- 124 -

--- PAGE 150 of 260 ---

October Market Analysis 
By George Bayer 
 
MOST of our readers who are conscious of the fact that planets influence our lives 
and our doings, no doubt, ask themselves the question: How can the stock market be 
figured out from such planetary movements? How can the wheat market be figured 
out with the same identical positions, or the cotton market or hide market? 
 
The question is perfectly legitimate and proper. 
 
While statisticians and economists look up the earning statements, the "outlook," the 
freight car loadings to measure the price of stocks next week or next month, certain 
astrologers measure constantly the planets They measure how far they are apart from 
each other in degrees while they move around the Zodiac. Sometimes these planets 
move rather fast, at other times they move slow even to a point where they "stand 
still" like Joshua's Sun did stand still at his command. At other times these planets 
move backward in the heaven which we call "retrograde" motion. 
 
All these movements spoken of occur in longitude as well as in declination or in 
latitude. For an explanation of these terms we should consult some old volume on 
astronomy, of which there are many to be found in second-hand book stores. Readers 
would find much other material therein pertaining to movements which as a rule are 
not given or explained in astrology books, because, we, as astrologers assume 
constantly that the ABC teachings of astronomy are known already by the student. 
Our "building" is erected on astronomy, just as orthography or syntax are founded on 
the knowledge of "how to use the pen and write." We are actually on a much higher 
plane than astronomers, because we use what they produce. We interpret the planets' 
positions, movements, angles as they affect everything, people, stocks, governments, 
etc., at least we "try to." 
 
Let us now go over to actual facts of how interpretations are made (the way I make 
them, others may arrive at the same results in some other way). 
 
 
- 125 -

--- PAGE 151 of 260 ---

The main principle for astrologers to observe is this: a planet influences (1) according 
to its position, i. e., where it is at a certain moment in the heaven. 
 
(2)  According to angles (degrees, minutes and seconds) a planet forms to some other 
planet. 
 
(3) According to the repetition in its cycle, i. e., checking the effect it had at some 
previous time when the same positions did occur. 
 
 
 
- 126 -

--- PAGE 152 of 260 ---

The usual procedure is to say: a square is evil, a trine is favorable, so is an opposition, 
etc., I found, however, that a square can be very favorable and a trine can be very evil 
or the other1 way around. I also found that a square or a trine can be neutral, i. e., you 
don't notice any change whatever ... So which is which? The answer is simply this: 
there are the other planets causing this. While two planets may form a trine, a third 
one may just be approaching another one and, to illustrate this more vividly, let us 
say, the planet who gets into trine with the other looks around to see who is coming 
and forgets all about his trine with the other. It also depends whether or not the 
planets forming an aspect, such as a trine, are friends or foes. Periodically Mars is a 
great friend of Jupiter, but, woe, when he is evilly inclined towards it! The most 
beautiful trine will bring about a sharp decline. 
 
If we carefully plot day to day movements of stocks and of the various commodities, 
we find that a trine between two certain planets may bring an up-move in wheat, a 
drop in cotton and stocks are not affected at all. This may be compared to a group of 
people who look at a fellow that slipped on the ice and broke his leg. One may feel 
sorry for the man, the other one gets a laughing spell on account of the funny motions 
this man made trying to prevent the fall, another one just looks because there is 
something to look at. The. gossip that follows after the man is taken to a hospital may 
be compared to a group of fellows who discusses the market in a brokerage office at 
three o'clock. None seems to know why the man slipped on the ice, the same way as 
none seems to know why the market dropped today (written August 12, 1938). Some 
say it is Germany, who causes it, because they want a piece of Bohemia, others say: it 
is just a breathing spell for the big bull move to come. They would not say, however, 
that has in its forecast a decline for stocks printed a month ahead and written three 
months before by an astrologer who in turn "gazed into the stars" and wrote: they 
should decline the most part of August, 1938. 
 
The rationalist wants everything proven to make things palatable for him. The people 
who are astrologically inclined (planetary positions bring this about) believe in the 
possibility of forecasts by means of planetary movements. The aim of these articles is 
an attempt to show readers in a round about way of how forecasting is tackled. There 
are no ifs nor whens; facts alone count. A planet for example, let us take Saturn, 
which comes to 8.38 Leo on August 31, 1917 and at the same time the Sun is at 8.38 
Virgo and at the very same time Mars is at 22.30 Cancer, then, and only then did 
"they" close the wheat market and the wheat market "went dead." The re-opening of 
the wheat market did not occur until Mr. Saturn— "they" had moved exactly thirty 
degrees further in the Zodiac and the Sun reached the place Mars had occupied at the, 
closing of the wheat market, i. e., 22.30 Cancer. This happened on July 15, 1920. 
 
Like magic, "they" reopened the wheat market on that day . . . 
 
Who had a hand in the closing respectively in the reopening? Answer: "They." 
 
Another case is worth noting. When we take the horoscope for the stock market, erect 
the "five-fold horoscope" of same, further, when we progress the Moon according to 
rules and regulations, we find: May 17, 1792, the stock market started. September 15, 
1792, we had an eclipse of the Sun to the Moon. The duration of this eclipse was very 
important. By astrological progression we use one day of the ephemeris as equal to 
 
- 127 -

--- PAGE 153 of 260 ---

one year of life. When we count from May 17, 1792, up to September 15th in days, 
we find the amount of days to be equal to the number of years that have elapsed from 
1792 to 1914. Now, when we adjust the time of the day and other small factors, we 
find that the stock market was closed from the moment the eclipse of Sun to Moon 
began and the market reopened exactly on the day the eclipse was over by progression 
. . . on Sept. 15, 1792! 
 
These are just two "small" items of great importance as proof that Astrology is not 
"the bunk" as a lot of people think, but that most of the people are too small to grasp 
such big things. 
In order to figure movements of commodities which seem to have been traded already 
in the times of Methusela we have no horoscope available. We have to take recourse 
to charts of movements as many years back as possible and daily charts only. Weekly 
or monthly charts won't do. They are hard to get. After that, we must check carefully 
each top or bottom, look up the complete planetary positions of such day and compare 
diligently all of them to find (1) which aspects are of importance, (2) which planets 
are of importance, (3) which special positions are important. 
 
Time to search must be no object. Gradually, relations can be detected; once a hold is 
taken on an angle or on a position or on a certain planet, we must hold on tenaciously 
to it and then improve if possible. 
 
When we compare this procedure with the procedure to locate events that are due to 
occur according to planetary condition to business enterprises, such as corporations, 
partnerships, etc., whether they should be successful or not, figure out a year or two 
ahead when they have their best periods or when they should be careful in their 
actions, such work may be called "play," because all the work connected to bring 
forth such prognostication requires but two and one-half to three days. On the other 
hand, figuring out movements without having a "time of beginning" requires checking 
back of events for years and coordinating all these events to the laws of repetition: the 
same cause brings the same event. Were it not for our friends, the statisticians, who 
are necessarily also a wheel of the Universe, we would be at a loss to get together the 
necessary data to do the research work. They have diligently accumulated the daily 
high and low levels of nearly all the commodities that are traded on the various 
exchanges. Hail, the statisticians, hail the astronomers ! 
 
The stock market for October should represent a rather bullish picture. Stocks should 
be at good levels, the movements rather narrow though. Small reactions should be 
followed by new runs upward and quite often it may appear as if we "go through the 
roof." This is especially so indicated for October 18th and again for October 23rd. 
However, planetary indications say: we won't let them go through—because we are 
getting ready to let them go down in the near future . . . Planets suggest to get rid of 
stocks that were bought last month, because these levels spell danger. 
 
All this interpretation for the stock market is subject, however, to what is due to 
happen between October 6th and 8th, 1938. During these days I have positions as they 
prevailed at the last critical period mentioned already in this article. He who can hear, 
let him hear ... It may not be unwise to ride temporarily in "neutral" over that period. 
We can never be too sure with our work, because we know too little about the 
intricacies of planets and therefore, all we can do at this time, is to draw your full 
 
- 128 -

--- PAGE 154 of 260 ---

attention to these days: October 6 to 8, 1938, as being critical days for the world-at-
large. 
 
Wheat, during the month of October, 1938, does not give much incentive for buying 
it. To the contrary, we should lose all we have gained during the month of September 
and end the month of October around the same levels as the lows of September 
produced. The 6th of October should become the peak of a sidewise movement that 
starts on the first of the month and ends by the eighth of October, giving us a gradual 
declining phase the rest of the month. A little lull in the decline should be noticeable 
between the 18th and 23rd of October, but decline should be resumed thereafter. 
According to planetary indications wheat should not be bought, but sold during 
October, 1938. 
 
- 129 -

--- PAGE 155 of 260 ---

November Market Analysis 
By George Bayer 
 
Let us now get into some new type of thought. What is forecasting? Most people 
come up and say: I have made up my mind to do this or that. The small baker 
sometimes has in mind to have several branch stores for himself, similarly to 
Continental Baking or other large corporations. The small candy store man visions 
himself with thirty or forty stores of the kind he now has, around a city, following the 
Woolworth idea. Small traders see themselves handling a few thousand shares of 
Steel or Copper as easily as they now carry ten. 
 
They have set their "will" towards that goal. If it was only up to the will of man, a lot 
of people would be more successful. But, unfortunately, astrology teaches us that the 
will, an idea stretched far and wide in psychological texts, is just another phantom 
belonging to mankind. 
 
We have all the will, but something else is doing the will one better. The government 
with all its will and money at their disposal, back in 1931 tried to hold wheat at $1.00. 
Just the same, Nature overruled will and money; wheat went to 40c. This Spring, the 
government established an agency to attempt to keep the price of butter at fairly high 
levels. End of August, that agency saw it drop fully four cents in three days and each 
eighth of a cent of a contract of butter is $24.00. So that drop amounted to nearly 
$800 per contract, a tremendous amount of drop. 
 
New York newspapers are fighting a war in Europe for the last three months (written 
Sept. 9th, 1938). During this period wheat has dropped 30c in Winnipeg and cotton 
lost 160 points, two raw products essential for war. That newspaper war must have 
cost readers of these newspapers a goodly sum of money, don't you think so? In a 
comparatively short time stock traders should find themselves in a similar boat. 
 
Our forecast for wheat  of   1938 pointed downward from January, 1938, on, see 
statement in December, 1937, issue and the war news around us bothered us very 
little. The forecast pointed down, so what could we do about it? Sing their song or 
stick to a forecast? 
 
 
- 130 -

--- PAGE 156 of 260 ---

A forecast, therefore, disregards everything that depends upon the will of man at a 
given time. Man in forecast is zero. It uses planetary action affecting or afflicting 
mankind and their will. While they believe that their will is doing this or that, that will 
is merely a reflex of planetary action which changes. 
 
So sometimes they like to buy according to "their will," at other times they like to sell 
at "their apparent will," actually, they follow dictation of planetary motion and that is 
why we are able to forecast closely, movements of stocks, wheat or what have you. 
 
Our forecasts turn out wrong when our laws of interpretation are wrongfully applied. 
To apply them right at all times, is possible and there used to exist people centuries 
ago who knew it all, I mean: they knew all the laws. We have lost all that knowledge 
completely. It is, however, registered in complete detail in the so-called 
pseudepigraph and allied works. In that, the fellow who wrote it, said: "I know that 
this work will be translated into all tongues and be read by everyone," we can deduct 
that he picked the exact right moment that would bring forth such an effect.  
 
- 131 -

--- PAGE 157 of 260 ---

He knew the laws and could start it accordingly. He also states that something that has 
started already cannot be altered anymore in its movement. This is very important to 
recognize. That is why nobody can change the motion of the stock, wheat or cotton 
market, all what can be done is follow it according to the laws as it is supposed to 
move, provided we know them. That is why a human life cannot be altered, it has to 
run its course as the astrological moment of birth indicates and forecasting considers 
only the point of beginning to base what is due (if we know the laws) upon it. 
 
He who believes in astrology and its laws will find similar results when doing 
sufficient research work and checking of events. Continued research will bring 
improvement in forecasting. For example up to last year I could only forecast the 
movements of wheat by using two trend lines of previous cycles. This year I have 
discovered that I can get the same result and even better when using but one single 
forecast line. For stocks I- have used one trend line forecast for many years. 
 
Some readers may wonder why, when you know laws that give closely the forecast 
for stocks over long periods ahead, you cannot do the same thing with any of the 
commodities. The answer is: the Moon moves differently each day and, if one 
commodity came to life when the Moon moves say 11 degrees 10 minutes per day (on 
that day), the action is entirely different   if  another  came   to   life when the Moon 
moves on that birthday 15°8' for example. It takes a long time to find out what motion 
the Moon has had at time of beginning for cotton, silk, hides or any-other, if we 
remember that no actual record is available as to when that happened. They surely 
traded these commodities even in biblical times because the Bible is full of individual 
trades of many commodities. 
 
Thus, different methods must be employed to find results when forecasting 
commodity prices. They are so complicated and far fetched, at the same time so easy 
to use that the writer is at a loss that most astrologers have not run onto them as yet. 
We have to give many thanks to the careful work of our' astronomers and compilers 
of ephemerides who take over 99% of the work to get the results. 
 
The month of November, 1938, indicates a period of great activity, but small changes 
are due in the price level. As it is with all bull movements, they have an end; so has 
this present one. We are getting so close to the end of the bull swing that had its 
inception last April, that readers of our magazine should hang out the red flag, the flag 
of danger. It is suggested to readers to tell your friends who doubt, that there is 
something to astrology or to ''star gazing," as the public likes to call it, that 
astrological laws indicate "troubles are brewing," calling for lower levels in stocks 
and commodities very, very soon. 
 
A decline is indicated from the beginning of the month until the eighth, followed by a 
rally to the 13th, then another reaction to the 20th. This reaction ought to be the last 
small reaction before the real reaction is due. From the 20th we should start rallying 
once more to the 25th, or 26th of the month. This date should be in memory from last 
year. Remember that we had the important low that time, that terminated the decline 
which we had scheduled from March 8th, 1937 . . . Well, this year it should prove to 
be the top, so as to fool all the traders for a change. 
 
 
- 132 -

--- PAGE 158 of 260 ---

Would sell stocks to those who believe we move upwards from here. For those who 
sell short the hint ought to be enough. Let their own concience be bothering them if 
they accumulate big profits. Suggestions for short selling are not too ethical to be put 
in print. They are suggested in special analyses. 
 
Wheat shows a slowly declining tendency during the month of November. The first 
six days should form hesitation of the decline that carries over from the previous 
month, but after they have passed over into history, the decline should ■be resumed 
into the month of December. Thus, nothing more can be said about it. 
 
- 133 -

--- PAGE 159 of 260 ---

Market Forecast for December, 1938 
By George Bayer 
 
Therefore the point of Longitude is at the same time the point of beginning for 
measuring the Latitude. And, after, we have fixed the Longitude of a planet, we can 
discard completely the idea that it came from O Aries. This gives us a spherical 
triangle thus: 
 
one side is the length of the latitude 
 
one side is length of declination 
 
one side is distance between Equator-declination point and Ecliptic-latitude point. 
 
Now, using the earth as the center of it all (geocentric view), we connect from this 
earth the points: 
 
Planet, Equator-declination point, Ecliptic-latitude point and we have the body spoken 
of above. 
 
This body has definite fixed qualities at all times due to its being of this certain planet, 
of this certain longitude, of this certain latitude and of this certain declination. Any 
change of position of the planet in one of the three dimensions changes immediately 
the quality of this body. Therefore, considering that planets change in their three 
dimensions from split second to split second, the quality of the planet changes also 
constantly. So it is with all planets. Each planet has his own body, the size of which 
varies constantly, due to their change in longitude, declination and latitude. In as 
much as all the planets are measured as seen from the earth, their bodies sometimes 
conflict with each other, one may even be absorbed by another and at that time the 
absorbed body will not possess its own qualities, but takes the qualities of the other; it 
is ruled so to say by that other body. This may be found more often by partial 
absorption, such as when the latitude of two planets is the same, or when the 
declination is the same; (this is called parallel). Else, the longitude may be the sune, 
which is called conjunction. 
 
At all such time* the planet which k more powerful is ruling the less powerful The 
size of the planet does not come into -consideration, by saying Neptune conjunction 
Mercury: Mercury is ruled by Neptune, because planet Neptune is larger. The little 
Mercury quite often rules big Neptune when they are in conjunction. There are other 
rules that govern rulerships. 
 
All these explanations were made to lead over to our real subject: markets. 
 
 
- 134 -

--- PAGE 160 of 260 ---

With stock prices, grain prices etc we also have to contend with three dimensions: 
Price, volume and time. Where are the three lines, price, volume and time coming to a 
"focus", if I may use that word? Their focus is either the Zero level or else the level of 
an important low. Just like a mountain or a pyramid has a base on one side, a peak and 
a base on the other side, so has a stock a bottom (low price), a peak (big volume) and 
a bottom (end of cycle). We therefore cannot really speak of a bull market and a bear 
market, but of a market cycle which contains both, the center of which represents the 
peak, the big volume. The end of the cycle of one phase becomes at the same time 
automatically the base or bottom of the succeeding cycle. So that "Time" as used in 
my explanation is found on the side of the beginning of the upmove as well as on the 
side where the mountain slope ends; in other words, both sides of the mountain 
represent Time, or better still, everything is "Time"! 
 
That is why in previous articles, as well as in my weekly analyses I constantly stress 
the fact that "give me Time and all the rest are soapsuds". Provided we have Tine, we 
hare also price and volume at a given moment. To distinguish between a top or a 
bottom in stocks or wheat, I personally believe that not a great deal of knowledge is 
required. When nobody wants them, it is buying Time; when everybody wants them, 
it is selling Time. We may be several points off the very peak price when selling, but 
when it comes to buying we should easily get within a short distance from major 
lows. The slopes of the mountains start gradually on one side and end gradually on the 
other side. 
 
The secret why so many people, who never touch stocks for years, buy them at the 
very peak and sell them at the very bottom is due to entirely different factors than 
ignorance or greed. I have hinted at it some time ago.    It is this way: 
 
People through work produce funds. The funds are used to keep them in trim for food, 
shelter, normal luxuries etc. Any of the funds that are produced beyond these 
 
- 135 -

--- PAGE 161 of 260 ---

necessities are used to attempt a quick increase in wealth. They begin to speculate, 
buy real estate, make journeys to distant lands, "invest" in this and that. 
 
As the Water kettle evaporates the boiling water on "top" so does a boiling stock 
market to the money of the traders. Because we have seen before that volume is on 
the top of the mountain and not, at the bottom of it. 
 
In the stock market just now written (Oct. 11th, 1938) we art boiling nicely and it 
won't be long now that the flame will be reduced. 
 
In fact, by the time you get this article into your hands it is still appearing as if it was 
boiling well, although somewhat below the peak. During the month of December the 
flame shall be extinguishing and a fast "cooling-off process" should occur, a decline is 
in view down hill, on the other side of the mountain. It appears from astrological 
indications that it is high time to take in the sails, or, if in the air, to take and unfurl a 
parachute in a hurry. 
 
The averages indicate below the 100 level, while we are now enjoying the 150 level. 
A lot of people which I hear talk just now expect to sell their holdings at the time we 
reach "above" 165 in the Dow Jones averages. Watch them sell as soon as we break 
the 98 level . ... 
 
I would not want to own stocks during December 1938. 
 
Wheat indicates low levels during December: A bottom is indicated around December 
10th, with a rally to follow the rest of the month. We cannot look for a big bull 
movement in wheat for quite a while, at least that is what planets indicate and more of 
a trading affair should ensue. Last July, I wrote in this magazine, at the time wheat 
was selling around 80c that we are headed towards the 60c level. At this time, wheat 
selling at 60c (October 11th, 1938) I am afraid we are apt to see it below 50c, coming 
down gradually into lower brackets. 
 
 
- 136 -

--- PAGE 162 of 260 ---

[OCR] BIBLE
INTERPRETATION

George Bayer
(1937)

Published in weekly serials of two pages

each week with many illustrations.

--- PAGE 163 of 260 ---

[OCR] ABOUT THIS BOOK

We bought our first copy of this book from a dealer in Chicaga. It
leaked like a photocopy of a photocopy of a photocopy; it was
difficult to read and there were numerous errors in spelling and
punctuation.

The book has been re~typed and is complete except for one word that
we could net decipher, Some changes were made in punctuation and
spelling fer the sake of clarity, but the text remains largely as
Mr. Bayer produced it.

--- PAGE 164 of 260 ---

[OCR] GENESIS
Chapter 1

VERSE 1: When we commonly speak of heaven and earth, we have to
imagine that the heaven comprises everything that is beyond the
earth proper. The heaven is represented with a circle and the
earth with a dot in Figure # 1. We shall later see that God is the
planet Mars.

VERSE 2: Nothing was active so far; we find the spirit of Mars
moving upon the waters. This spirit moves not in, but above the
waters. The earth had no form so far; darkness was all around; we
had also something that was deep. When speaking of the waters and
the moving of a spirit upon the waters, we are able to distinguish
a level of that water in form of a line. This line is drawn in
Figure # 2 and begins at a point which we shall call Scorpio in the
heaven and ends at a point which we shall call Taurus. Darkness
necessarily must prevail above the waters and depth below the
waters. The spirit of God is moving back and forth from Scorpio to
Taurus.

VERSE 3: We illustrate this verse in Figure # 3. We find that the
upper half of our heaven becomes light and this is the only change
that is brought about in verse 3.

VERSE 4: We illustrate this verse in Figure # 4. We find that the
heaven above the waters becomes the light and the heaven below the
waters becomes the darkness.

VERSE 5: The part of the heaven above the waters becomes day and
the part below the waters becomes night. See Figure # 4.
For the time being, we interpret the sentence “and the evening

and the morning become the first day" as follows. The daily
rotation of the earth around itself produces what we call day and
night and both taken together we call “one day", In this case the

rotation of the point Scorpio from its position say at 12 noon
around a circle and back to its place of beginning we call one day.
It indicates that the point begins its motion in our Figure # 4,
moves downward towards night and darkness, upward on the other
side, passing the point which we marked in our Figure as Taurus,
upward further, culminating, and returning to its point of
beginning. The centre, our dot, seemingly remains stationary
while the entire outside moves completely around this centre in one
day. When we look at our Sun and Moon, we find this to be the
case. They rise in the East, move seemingly upward in the heaven
and set in the West within about one half day; the other half of
the day they make their passage below the Earth, only to come back
again to approximately the same spot the next morning. Such a
rotation is called “one day” for the present. (Later on we shall
see that “one day” is entirely something else}.

VERSE 6: ‘This is illustrated in Figure #5. The firmament is the
Zodiac. In as much as the Zediac begins with the first degree of
Aries and not with Taurus or Scorpio, our picture must be adjusted
so that on one side we have Aries and on the other side Libra. We
have twelve such signs in this Zodiac. Here are the names and

Page l

--- PAGE 165 of 260 ---

[OCR] Name Symboi Name Symbat
Aties—Ram

aid Libra—Balance =

abbreviations of these Signs. Taurus—Buil u Scorpio—Scorpion Tm
Gemini—Twins a Sagittarius—Archer ft

Cancer—Crab aD Capricomus—-Goat K

Leo—Lion Rx Aquarius—Waterman =

Virgo—Virgin nR Pisces~-Fisheg x

This is the correct rotation of the signs in the Zodiac. We have
twelve of them. The English translation for these signs in their
respective order is as follows: The Ram, the Bull, the Twins, the
Crab, the Lion, the Virgin, the Scale, the Scorpion, the Centaur,
the Goat, the Water Bearer, the Fishes.

In as much as these signs are of equal length and a circle has
360°, each sign has 30°. The order of the signs never changes. in
Figure # 5, we find the Zodiac with the signs in their proper
sequence and in Pigure # 5a we have the same Zodiac but inserted
into the circle, which is the usual way of plotting it. The former
is merely for illustration to bring about the idea that actually
this Zodiac is an ellipse. It is the latter we shall constantly
use. The imaginary centre point always represents the Earth.

VERSE 7: Before going into this verse, we look closely at Figure
# Saa, which brings home the idea of the morning and the evening,
showing also midnight and noon with their respective signs.
Thereby morning is taken as equal to Spring (Sun at 0 Aries, Noon
is taken as mid-summer (Sun entering Cancer}, evening is taken as
the Fall (Sun entering Libra), and Capricorn represents winter or
mid-night, when the Sun is furthest to the south. We know from
experience that during the Summer we have most daylight and when
the Sun enters Capricorn we have the shortest day.

. In verse 7 we have three kinds of waters called seas in the
firmament: Cancer, Scorpie and Pisces. The shaded portion of our
Figure # 6 represents the three different kinds of waters and note
that two are below the line Aries-Libra while the third is above
it.

VERSE 8: We note that the firmament, i.e. the Zodiac, is now
called heaven. This Zodiac we must remember begins at 0° Aries.

VERSE 9: The dry land appears now between the waters and extends
from the end of Scorpio to the beginning of Pisces, or in other
words, from 0 Sagittarius over to 0 Pisces. It includes the entire
Signs of Sagittarius, Capricorn and Pisces. See Figure # 7,

VERSE 10: The dry land is now called the Earth, and the gathering
of the waters is called sea. This is very important and must be
carefully retained.

We now have to eliminate our original idea as given above that
the Earth is in the centre and the Zodiac around it. This is not
meant at all when the Bible talks about the Earth. What the Bible
constantly and always means when speaking of the Earth is that
Sector of the Zodiac that comprises the signs Sagittarius,
Capricorn and Aquarius and nothing else,

VERSE 11: This earth brings forth 1) grass
2) herb yielding seed
3) the fruit tree yielding fruit.

Page 2

--- PAGE 166 of 260 ---

[OCR] Figure # & shows this division in detail. We simply divide the
Earth into three parts called Sagittarius {grass), Capricorn (the
herb yielding seed) and Aquarius (the fruit tree). Note that it
does not say fruit trees (plural) but fruit tree (singular); there
is only one, not several of them.

VERSE 12: expresses the same thought as verse 11 and due to the
great importance of verse 11 it is repeated in another form which
we shall see occurs very often when the writer wants to bring out
something specially strong.

VERSE 13: We shall explain this verse when we add together all the
seven days.

VERSE 14 including VERSE 15: the lights, generally speaking, that
God created in the firmament are the various Planets. There are
two kinds of lights; one kind is for the day, the other kind is for
the night. They also have to give signs, or in other words,
indications, information as to what shall happen. What shall
happen refers to life in general, to persons, to countries, wars,
famines, pests, earthquakes, upheavals, your own life, the life of
wheat prices, stocks, plants, animals. They are to be for seasons
such as the season to wear straw hats, to play marbles, ta fly
kites, to have festivals such as Easter, Christmas, other festivals
such as carnivals, fairs, pageants, etc.

They are to be for days and years. This means that these
Planets individually produce cycles of their own, such as a Venus
cycle upon which special conditions depend, or a Saturn cycle upon
which other, slower developing conditions depend. It has been my
experience that for example the prices of wheat depend only upon
the cycles of Mars and Venus and no other planet affects the prices
of wheat. On the other hand, butter prices are only affected by
the cycles of Venus and Jupiter. My own personal cycle is affected
by Mercury and Saturn. We therefore must first of all, when doing
some analyzing of persons, find out which planets {only two come in
question) affect the person. The best way to define this is to
check illnesses or times when one is indisposed. toak up carefully
the angles formed by the various planets to each other, measure
them exactly to the minute. We have the following important
planets which must be checked from an ephemeris for the date in
question: Sun to Mercury; Sun to Venus: Sun to Mars; Sun to
Jupiter; Sun to Saturn; Sun to Uranus; Sun to Neptune. The next
Series are Mercury to Venus: Mercury to Mars; Mercury to Jupiter;
Mercury to Saturn; Mercury to Uranus; Mercury ta Neptune, The
third series are Venus to Mars; Venus to Jupiter; Venus to Saturn;
Venus to Uranus; Venus to Neptune. The fourth series are Mars to
Jupiter; Mars to Saturn; Mars to Uranus; Mars ta Neptune.

The remaining series cannot be used for human lives because
they develop too slowly and are only useful to figure wars, major
events such as formations of states, eras, such as the age of
electricity, the flying age, etc.

When you test several cases of one and the same person, you
will find that at times of important events, the two planets that
"rule" him are at important angles to each other. My little cat,
for example, responds to aspects between Venus and Saturn, The
very day an aspect is due of 45°, 90°, or 150° that animal gets

Page 3

--- PAGE 167 of 260 ---

[OCR] sick on me and so sick that her end seems near. Two days after the
aspect, however, she runs around as if never anything had happened
to her. Stocks, wheat, cotton or ather commodities do the same
thing. They get sick spells and prices move down; they feel fine
and prices move up,

We have for example each year between Venus and Saturn aspects
as follows: when both are together in longitude we have a
conjunction or they are 0” apart in longitude. Then we find them
15° apart, 30°, 45°, 60°, 75°, 90°, 105°, 120°, 135°, 150°, is0°¢
apart which is called an opposition. When we pass five years, we
have therefore passed through five cycles of Venus~Saturn. We
shall find for example that the 90° angle the first years was
affecting the person very much to the bad; the second year that
same 90° angle did not cause any disturbance: the third year we
find that this angle brought about an event that was wonderful, and
so on. We thus can distinguish the years mentioned in this verse
when we realize that after a certain fixed period the rhythm of the
events re-occur, i.e. if the first rhythm was bad - neutral - good,
then after a series of 12, 15, 20 or more actual 90° angles have
passed, we get an exact repetition of the effects of these events,
although at the same time they may express themselves a little
differently. To illustrate this better, I have found cycles or
years of planets repeating in wheat prices which, while they bring
about the changes very exactly from day to day, the price levels of
the present compared to the past cycle may vary considerably. This
is due to the slower moving planets which bring about the very
large swings of changes in life. It is usually called the trend.
Por example, if one has had bad luck for a number of years and his
intelligence and business acumen are good, at some time this streak
of bad luck will change and he will begin to improve, first slowly,
then faster and finally speed Way ahead into a motion that in terms
of Wall Street is called a bull market. However, during such a
bull market, he will have his ups and downs according to the
aspects of the two planets that fix his life.

The meaning of “days” in VERSE 14 is therefore: the aspects of
two planets to each other as they develop. The meaning of “year”
is: a repetition of several of the previous cycles put into one
cycle which as a rule extends a number of years.

VERSE 15 puts the lights in the firmament of the heaven, which
comprises, as we have found, the signs of Pisces, Aries, Taurus,
Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, They shall give light
upon the Earth. We know the Earth comprises the signs af
Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius.

Therefore, when doing checking of events we must pay special
attention to the effect of the twa ruling planets while they are
passing through the earth instead of through the heaven, first when
only one is in, secondly when both are in the earth. The effect of
the two planets when they are in the heaven forming a 90° angle
then is entirely different in case such a 90° angle is formed and
One or the other is in the earth. Note that it is impossible for
both to be in the earth and forma 90° angle, because the earth is
only 90° long.

VERSE 16: The greater light is Jupiter, our biggest planet; the
lesser light is Saturn. Thus Jupiter rules the day and Saturn

Page 4

--- PAGE 168 of 260 ---

[OCR] rules the night. Nothing is said here about the Sun or Moon which
as we shall later find out are quite unimportant. See Figure # 9,

As we know from elementary astronomy, our own Earth is
inclined to the Ecliptic or Zodiac at an angle of about 234°. We
therefore erect our heaven for the time being as shown in Figure #
10 until later when we shall find that entirely different points
must be used.

Figures # 9 and 10 are identical, with the only exception that
we seemingly turn the heaven 232° (in our drawing we move it 30° or
one sign}.

Inasmuch as we have throughout the Bible to do with cycles, we
must recognize that so far we have gone through four cycles... The
first cycle was the creation of Day and Night; the second cycle was
the creation of the Firmament (Zodiac); the third cycle was the
creation of the seas and of the earth: the fourth cycle was the
creation of the lights. The first cycle we call the Aries cycle,
the second the Taurus cycle, the third the Gemini cycle, the fourth
the Cancer cycle,

“God created", our verse i, actually means: Mars passed
through these cycles one after the other. Therefore, we can once
more erect the heaven and see how far he has Proceeded up to now,
Figure # 1l.

VERSE 20: The moving creatures of the waters are: the Crab, the
Scorpion and the Fishes, the three signs of the Zodiac defining the
Seas. See Figure # 12,

The fowl we see in the sa-called airy signs:

Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. See Figure # 13.
Note that the distance from one sign to the other is equal and
extends 120°. This is the case with the signs of the water
animals, as well as with the signs of the fowl.

It is very important to retain that these six things were
created by the waters.

VERSE 21: When we combine these six living things created by the
Waters into one heaven, as shown in Figure # 14, the remaining
signs must necessarily turn out to be the whales. Therefore we
find that the whales are Aries, Taurus, Leo, Virge, Sagittarius and
Capricorn. Note that two signs are always together and that there
are three times two doubles. The whales are actually the nodes of
the planets and the common astrological abbreviation is i% . It
must remind one of a whale, at least it has the form of one of
those porpoises which the steamers meet in great quantities as they
approach our Continent coming from Europe.

Whenever a planet crosses the Ecliptic, it is said to be in
its node. We know that a planet crosses the Ecliptic when coming
from the north in order to go south and also when it comes from the
south to go north. One is called the descending node, the other
the ascending node. The movement spoken af just now is the motion
of a planet in LATITUDE. Under LATITUDE we understand a motion of
the planets to the north and to the south of the Ecliptic. It is
expressed in degrees and minutes the same as longitude, In our
Figure # 5 where we show the Zodiac, we may call the same also
Ecliptic for our purpose. The planets move along this Ecliptiec in
a narrow, winding path within a belt extending about 6° on both
sides, at the same time moving along in longitude from one sign tuo

Page 5

--- PAGE 169 of 260 ---

[OCR] the next, becoming occasionally retrograde, i.e. moving backward,
against the order of the signs and then forward again, however,
overwhelmingly forward. Whenever a planet actually crosses the
piane of the Ecliptic, it has no latitude or we say its latitude is
Oo". This point of crossing is called the node of the planet. The
position of the node is different for each planet and the
progression of the node is at a rate of about 46" per year for all
planets except the Moon whose motion is about 3° per day. Ail
nodes have a retrograde motion in the Zodiac. The Sun, of course,
has no node.

We call ascending node a point in the Zodiac at which the
planet crosses the Ecliptic coming from the Southern Latitude and
moves upward into Northern Latitude; the descending node is the
point where a planet crosses the Ecliptic when coming from the
Northern Latitude and going into Southern Latitude. Figure # 16.

We imagine that we have three planes, one above the other: the
middie plane represents the Ecliptic, the upper plane the limit cf
Northern Latitude and the lower plane the limit of southern
Latitude. The space between Northern and Southern we call the helt
within which the planet moves in Latitude. When we draw the path
of the planet into the picture, Figure # 16, we note that this path
crosses the Ecliptic at two opposite points and these points are
called the Nodes.

In Figure # 17 we show the Nodes in the heaven all alone and
connect one with the other so as ta obtain a suitable picture that
ean be easily retained in your mind.

VERSE 22: We note that the great whales and every living creature
that moveth which the waters brought ferth shall be fruitful and
they shall multiply and they shall fill the waters in the seas.
These waters are Cancer, Seorpio and Pisces.

The fowl, Gemini, Libra and Aquarius shal! multiply, however,
in the earth. They therefore can only multiply in the signs of
Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius and nowhere else.

VERSE 23: We have a fifth day, Leo, to be entered as “living
things in the waters".

VERSE 24: In the previous chapter or verse we had the things which
the waters brought forth; now we have the things which the earth
brings ferth

1) the cattle {see Pigure # 18)

2) the creeping things (see Figure #°19)

3) the beasts of the Earth after its kind (see Figure # 20)

VERSE 25: The Cattle are therefore

1) Aries the Ram
2) Taurus the Bull
3) Leo the Lion

4) Capricorn the Goat

The creeping things are:

1} Cancer the Crab
2) Seorpio
3) Pisces the Fishes

The beasts of the Earth are:

Page 6

--- PAGE 170 of 260 ---

[OCR] 1} Virgo the Virgin, or the woman
2} Sagittarius the Archer, or the man

We note that the Earth brings forth a substitute for the water
animals, but it has no substitute for the fowl: thus, Gemini, Libra
and Aquarius are exclusive products of the waters and they have no
relationship to the Earth.

VERSE 26: The division made for the beasts of the earth to be Virgo
and Sagittarius is wrong. These ancient writers knew that many
people would try very hard to connect the Bible with Astrology.
Giving Virgo as a beast of the Earth sounds logical due to its
name. Placing Capricorn among the cattle sounds good too. I was
fooled with that for many months myself; later I found that this
statement was made purposely wrong as will be later on fully shown.

Capricorn only seemingly belongs ta the cattle; it is the
second beast of the Earth, i.e. the woman, while Sagittarius is man
- Eve and Adam.

VERSE 27: Therefore Capricorn is female, while Sagittarius is male.

VERSE 28: They (Sagittarius and Capricorn) have dominion over:

1) the fish of the sea; Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces,

2) the fowl of the air; Gemini, Libra and Aquarius.

3) the cattle; Aries, Taurus, Leo.

4) all the earth; Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius.

5} the creeping things; Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces.

6) we miss out on Virge, This is unimportant and should he
included and it was written that way so as to put people off the
track.

VERSE 29: As we have seen from Figure # &, the herb bearing seed is
Capricorn and the tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding
seed is Aquarius. ‘This verse sounds as if the herb bearing seed
was all over the Earth, i.e. in Sagittarius, Capricorn and
Aquarius. To them it shall be for meat. We do not know as yet
what is meant by meat, but suffice to say that the Earth is only
meat to them and not meat for any other such as Leo or Gemini.

VERSE 30: But to them, i.e. beasts of the Earth

fowl of the air

things that creep
only the green herb shall be meat: green herb is most likely meant
to be grass (Figure # 8), i.e. Sagittarius. But note we miss Virgo
once more.
The remark “wherein there is life" may exclude the sign of Virgo
because later on we shall find that Virgo has to do with stone:
(Genesis, Chapter 11, verse 3) and for this reason it may be
considered as being lifeless.

VERSE 31: The 6th day brings us an entry in Figure # li under the
sign of Virgo {!!)} Creation of Animals !!

Figure # 21 shows the first six days of creation in shaded
portions. We note that just one half of the circle is completed.
We began with Aries and have now completed Virgo. In the next
sign, Libra, we establish the equilibrium, Libra the Scales...

Pigure # 22 is referring back to the Nodes whose abbreviation
is i: It may have never occurred to you that this abbreviation is

Page 7

--- PAGE 171 of 260 ---

[OCR] cleverly chosen. Human beings are full of nodes, The question
which planets are represented by these various nodes 1 have not
defined as yet. From the analysis of the Tabernacle built by Moses
which we meet in due time, it appears that the node representing
the legs is that of Jupiter; the node representing the arms is that
of Venus and the node representing the head is that of Mars,
However, the other nodes of the body cannot be defined so far, but
as we advance in our study, either myself or one of the students
may accidentally hit upon the solution. As we go further and
locate the laws which cause stocks, wheat, cotton, etc. to change
direction on absolute pre-determinable dates, details such as these
become quite unimportant, however interesting they are to medical
students.

Figure # 23 reveals the back side of the human body as a node.
We therefore can count eight distinct nedes on the human body; one
of the nodes is reversible depending upon the sex of the male of
female individual,

All these nodes are again encompassed within a Zodiac of its
own as shown by the dotted line surrounding them: see Figure # 5
for comparison, When making the comparison, you have to place the
sign of Aries at the head of the human body. This will bring
different signs to the right hand and left hand, to the right foet
and to the left foot. Therefore the right foot has very little in
commen with the left foot, belonging to a different sign
altogether. They just happen to be neighbours. Left and right
foot are about in sextile aspect to each other, while left hand to
right hand are about in a 150° angle to each other or rather ina
210° angle because we should measure via the head. Of course, when
we consider that the limbs are part of the node of one certain
planet, the rising node against the @escending node, they have
their affinity in that node. But, we are anticipating things here
that belong much further back.

End of Chapter One.

CHAPTER TWO

VERSE 1: We find herein two fine distinctions:
1) we can take the heavens as encompassing the arc Aries-Virgo.
2) the earth, the arc Sagittarius-Aquarius.
Or, we may say: Heaven is above: Aries-Libra
Earth is below : Libra-Aries.

“And all the host of them": host we May just as well call
"ghost", meaning also "guest". It represents the planets that move
therein like ghosts. We have only two defined so far: Jupiter and
Saturn. The former rules “above"; the latter, “below”. As we
shall find later, God is turning out to be Mars, and the four
remaining planets - Sun, Venus, Mercury and Moon - are mere
assistants and therefore of little importance at least for the
major things we are talking about in the first books of the Bible.

VERSE 2: The 7th day; our sign Libra represents the Day of Rest.
We note now that one sign of the Zodiac determines one day. This
is only to be for major matters; we shall later on define "a daz"
in the Bible very much differently.

Page 8

--- PAGE 172 of 260 ---

[OCR] VERSES 3 and 4: The 7th day was sanctified and blessed. He (Mars)
rested in it; this means he stopped in the middle of Libra at 15‘,
Stopping means stationary, whereby from a forward motion the planet
became retrograde, i.e. goes backward. Thus we discover here a
very important cycle; whenever it happens that Mars in his journey
through the Zodiac becomes stationary at 15° of Libra or very close
to this point, an important major cycle ends there,

15° Aries is just above 15° Libra. Figure # 24 shows us the
new construction of heaven and earth, such as we shall later use
when we construct the Tabernacle of Mases. Note in that Figure the
earth and its position, the two seas in blue, the heaven in red and
the equilibrium in white, Libra. We find 15° Aries at the top and
at the time of the Flood we shall find 0° Taurus in its place.

VERSES 4 and 5: They belong together and we find here for the
first time the word “field" which represents in this case
Sagittarius and Capricorn. Nothing is said of a field wherein the
fruit tree grows.

We must bear in mind that God is still at 15° Libra, but in

VERSE 6 he continues on his journey. “A mist went up from the
earth". This means from Sagittarius upward (to the left, i.e.
contrary to the order of signs). It settled therefore in Scorpio.
Mist is some form of water; Scorpio, a sea, is water. This mist
watered the whole face of the ground, i.e. Sagittarius, Capricorn
and Aquarius.

VERSE 7: The next step was the formation of man out of the dust of
the ground, i.e. out of Sagittarius. "And he breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life", Figure # 25. According to our
picture, we find that the right nostril extends approximately from
2° to 13° Sagittarius, while the left one extends from 17° to 28°
Sagittarius. The breathing must have heen done through the right
nostril. “And man became a living soul" means: the sign of
Sagittarius has now become active, just the same as the sign of
Scorpio became active through the mist. In the picture we are not
going to analyze now the other parts of the head as shown in the
picture; they are merely inserted to convey the general idea of the
nostrils.

VERSE 8: In this verse, we jump over into Aquarius, skipping
temporarily the sign of Capricorn. Thus the Garden of Eden is
Aquarius in the close meaning; in the wider meaning it comprises
the earth, i.e. Sagittarius to Aquarius and even includes Pisces as
we shall find very soon. God put Adam into the Garden of Eden.

VERSE 9: God grew four trees in the Garden of Eden:
Tree # 1 is pleasant for sight
# 2 is good for food
# 3 the Tree of Life in the midst
# 4 the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil

Tree # 1 we place at the beginning of Eden, i.e. at 0° Aquarius
Tree # 2 we place at its end, i.e. at 30° Aquarius

Tree # 3 we place in the middle, i.e. at 15° Aquarius

Tree # 4 appears to he either a pair of trees, one for good and

one for evil; or, one tree, comprising the whole, i.e. 0° Aquarius
to 0° Pisces (30° Aquarius). If we use the former, we get the Tree

Page 9

--- PAGE 173 of 260 ---

[OCR] of knowledge for good at 7° 30‘ Aquarius and Tree of Knowledge for
bad at 22° 30’ Aquarius. If we use the idea of the whole, then
knowledge as such depends entirely upon the condition of the sign
of Aquarius in anybody's chart or nativity. This means we must
check the planets contained in Aquarius, the angles planets outside
of Aquarius cast towards the Tree of Life, i.e. towards 15°
Aquarius, towards the tree of food, 30° Aquarius, towards the tree
that is pleasant for sight, i.e. 0° Aquarius, For example, Mercury
found at 25° of Taurus in some nativity would cast a 100° angle
towards the Tree of Life, an 85* angle towards the tree of food and
a 115° angle towards the tree that is Pleasant for sight. This
same procedure must be used with all the Planets and carefully
noted for later use.

We therefore must recognize that the sign of Aquarius is the
only source to discover someone’s intelligence.

VERSE 10: The river that went out of Eden (Aquarius) ran right into
the next sign, Pisces, and split into four parts. Thus we divide
the sign Pisces into four parts, each one 7° 30' long: Figure # 28.
The river Pison flows around the land of Hevilah which is therefors
from 0° to 7°30' Pisces; in this land we find

VERSE 1l: 1) its gold is wood

VERSE 12: 2) bdellium is there

3) onyx stone is there.
Gold means the Sun; thus the Sun found within O° and 7° 30° Pisces
is goad. Onyx stone is most likely Saturn; meaning that Saturn
found in some nativity between 0” and 7° 39! Aquarius is very good.
Bdellium we do not know yet what it means; we know, however, that
a planet is meant by it and therefore it Must represent one of the
planets we have not placed so far - Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter.
We never have to worry about Neptune or Uranus, nor the new
discovery, Pluto, hecause they are never considered. We have to
keep close watch whenever there is a talk about Bdellium later on
to try and lacate the planet that is meant by it and then come back
to this verse and insert its name.

VERSE 13: Ethiopia, the Negro country, comprises 7° 30' to 15°
Pisces. In Numerus Chapter 12, verse 1, we shall find that Mose
(Mercury) married an Ethiopian woman. The river Gihon flows around
Ethiopia.

VERSE 14: The third river, Hiddekel which goes towards Assyria.
Therefore we have Hiddekel encompassing the sector 15° to 22° 30’
Pisces and easterly of it we must find Assyria, which Assyria must
consequently be 22° 30' to 30 Pisces (i.e. O° Aries).

The fourth river is called Euphrates; see Pigure 28a.

We have now passed through all the twelve signs except through
the sign of Capricorn. This one was passed to make the story more
readable, or as I suspect, to sidetrack the nosy public who might
try to delve into the secrets of the Bible.

VERSES 15 and 16: Man is now in Aquarius and was commanded to eat
freely of every tree, except of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
Evil, else he die. In our Figure # 27, we placed two trees of
knowledge into the Garden which is obviously incorrect, because we
again find only one mentioned here; the additional difficulty we

Page 10

--- PAGE 174 of 260 ---

[OCR] meet is in that we find that the Tree of Knowledge is also Placed
into the middle and it would appear that the Tree of Life is
identical with the Tree of Knowledge, which it is not. Still
further on, Genesis Cahpter 3, verse 22, we find that he only has
taken from the Tree of Knowledge and not from the Tree of Life.
Our second assumption must be the right one: the Tree af Knowledge
comprises the whale of Aquarius and Adam gets into trouble when he
Moves out of Aquarius. We shall later find that Adam is Mars, and
when Mars therefore leaves Aquarius he dies in his cycle and a new
cycle begins, Death therefore in the Bible means: the end of one
cycle and the beginning of a new one (VERSE 17). This last
sentence is one of THE MAJOR LAWS contained in the Bible.

VERSE 18: This verse alludes to fill the gap left open by making a
help meet for man. Coming back for a moment to VERSE 16, we note
that the instructions about what to eat and what not to eat was
given by God to Adam at a time when there was no Eve as yet and
therefore it appears that the law applies to Adam primarily all
alone, i.e. to Mars, respectively to the sign of Sagittarius !

VERSES 19 and 20: Adam was to give names te all the cattle, to
the fowl and to the beasts of the field; this means the division of
the Zodiac and the names as we use for them ate invented by man, by
scientists who have devoted their lives ta this study. This
Statement is actually not in the proper place, but is used to lead
the reader over to what the writer actually wants to clarify in the
next verse: the creation of Capricorn, or the Woman, Eve.

VERSE 21: The deep sleep that fell upon Adam means: Mars, Adam,
could not go back in his cycle; thus he passed along through the
Zadiac without any action via Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo,
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, until he reached again his own sign,
Sagittarius. In Figure # 29, we find that Adam, Mars, man,
originally encompassed two full signs, Sagittarius and Capricorn.
But, in as much as we have to do with two signs of 30° each in
length, there was actually a rib between them, the rib of 0°
Capricorn. So God took away that rib and closed the place with
flesh. Therefore we have no distinguishing mark between the signs
Sagittarius and Capricorn such as we have between all the other
signs; all is flesh from 0° Sagittarius to 0° Aquarius, or for.
fully 60°,

VERSE 22; This verse is very difficult to explain and what I state
herewith as solution we must verify later with actual facts.

Capricorn I know is Mercury; Mars took the rib from man, i.e.
from Mars again and made that rib into a woman and this woman he
brought unto the man. Thus Mercury is part of the time a man and

part of the time a woman. Whenever Mercury enters the sign of
Capricorn she becomes a woman and remains to be a woman as long as
she approaches Mars, The moment it meets Mars somewhere by

conjunction after having left 0° Capricorn, she automatically
returns to become again a man. Mercury therefore has a dual form
of life. Therefore, Mercury, after its conjunction with Mars
somewhere in the Zodiac, becomes again a man until it reaches 0°
Capricorn once more,

Kindly study this phenomenon closely; it is of the utmost
importance for later use.

Page 11

--- PAGE 175 of 260 ---

[OCR] VERSE 23: The word “now leaves the question open: what was it
before ? I believe [I gave the true answer just previously in Verse
22. The same dual sex might be true with the sign of Capricorn and
thus the cause or reason for skipping it in the previous text. ft
is understandable now aiso why Adam could walk from Sagittarius
right into the Garden of Eden, Aquarius ?!!

In Chapter 1, verse 26, God (Mars) made man (Mars) in his
image, after his likeness. Mercury represents the female Mars !

VERSE 24: Under “man” in this sense I understand: Mars, Jupiter and
Saturn. Each one of them, after leaving his father (Sagittarius)
and mother (Capricorn) shall cleave unto his wife, whoever she
might be (Sun, Venus or Mercury as we shall later see) especially
though: Mars and Mercury, and they shall be one flesh, i.e. in that
case, or thereafter Sagittarius and Capricorn shall be one sign.

VERSE 25: Each one began his cycle at that time. This verse also
prepares the ground for Chapter 3, verse 10. "Not ashamed" means
virgin cycle, first cycle.

CHAPTER 3

VERSE 1: After the creation of the woman, Adam seems to have
proceeded with Mercury into the Garden of Eden again. We must
realize that it takes Mars about two years to get around the
Zodiac. Therefore, the time elapsed hetween Chapter 2, verse 16-17
until Chapter 3, verse 1, consumed about two years in our usual
time measure. We recognized already in a previous verse the beasts
of the field: one beast is man, Mars, Sagittarius
second beast is woman, Mercury, Capricorn; now the
third beast is the Serpent, Aquarius, Saturn.
The symbol for Aquarius points itself towards the serpent. The
entire field again represents the Earth.
Any conference entered in the Bible between two persons means

either a conjunction of the two or an opposition. in this case,
the serpent talks to the woman: i.e. Saturn is at that moment
conjunction Mercury. We know Mercury is faster in motion than

Mars, explaining the fact that Mercury talked first with Saturn.
The strange feature we note is the question Saturn puts to Mercury
in regards to what "ye" shall eat.

VERSE 2: The woman answers him with "we". How did she know about
it ? She just was born one sign previously and as 2 full grawn
waman besides, not as an infant !! We may eat of the fruit
(singular !) of trees of the Garden, but not of the tree that is in
the midst of the Garden which is 15° Aquarius. Looking back ta
Chapter 2, verse 9, we note that the Tree of Life was in the midst
of the Garden, i.e. at 15° Aquarius; in Chapter 2, verse 17, it is
called the Tree of Knowledge, however, which is quite different
from what can be deduced from verse 9.

At any rate, they shall not touch it even, lest they die.
This means, they cannot get into conjunction with 15° Aquarius,
else their cycle ends. A little further up, we tried to establish
the fact that they cannot go beyond 30° Aquarius lest they die.
This is contradictory and we therefore must attempt to test both

Page 12

--- PAGE 176 of 260 ---

[OCR] values, 15° Aquarius and 30° Aquarius on hand of movements of
stocks, of wheat or cotton and see what happens when Mars or Venus
become conjunct, i.e. transit these two points. For that work we
just consult our current ephemerides and see what happens the day
Mars or Mercury transits these points. To verify we have to make
ourselves so-called line charts, using paper of Keuffel & Esser,
#358-143L in which chart we enter daily the high and low price of
each commodity or stock we wish to check, by using the square as le
or $1.00 or 10 points, depending upon what we plot. After a
certain period, we shall be able to recognize an actual picture
produced by the constant addition of one line a day, that connects
the high and low price each day. Now, on the days in question some
unusual movement must occur if our law should prove itself.

From this verse we deduce: whenever Mars or Mercury reach 15°
00° Aquarius, they die in their cycle. Thus, they never live to
see the other half of Aquarius. We shall find may such sensitive
spots in the Zodiac where deaths occur and new cycles begin with
all sorts of planets. This explanation takes care of Verse 3,

VERSE 4: In as much as the serpent finds time to talk back to
Mercury, we must assume that Mercury was moving very slowly. It
May even be assumed that just before coming to 15° Aquarius,
Mercury met Saturn, became stationary right after without reaching
15° Aquarius and then turned retrograde (backward), moving again
towards the serpent, Saturn, which in itself moves very slowly. It
therefore seems that whoever does the talking in the Bible is
actually approaching another planet. The one that approached must
be moving faster than the one he talks to. This idea we have to
test, though. Figure # 30: Eve, the faster moving planet talks to
the serpent; Adam close behind Eve.

VERSE 5: We note that it says: ye shall be as Gods: plural form is
used, thus Mars must have been in hearing distance of the serpent.
On the other hand, we note that Adam did no talking at all. The
whole gossip was made by Eve. That they recognize good and evil is
in harmony with verse 17 of the previous chapter.

Up ta the present, it is not stated that the Tree of Knowledge
is equal to the Tree of Life, but in verse 3 we find that it is
also in "the midst”. The question arises, therefore, are there two
midsts or are the places identical ? We see in Chapter 2, verse 10
that a river went pout of the Garden of Eden to water the Garden.
Therefore the sign of Pisces is a part of the Garden and we must
say the Garden proper is Aquarius; the waters of the Garden are in
Pisces. We have here the same phenomenon as between Sagittarius
and Capricorn. Man of Sagittarius equals the dry part of the
Garden, while Eve of Capricorn equals the watery part of the
Garden. Figure # 31.

VERSE 6: This verse brings us a somewhat different picture.
Therein we discover that there were only two trees in the entire
garden; one was at 15° Aquarius and this specific one is

1} good for food

2) pleasant to the eyes

3) it makes one wise.

The other tree, which is at 15° Pisces, is the Tree of Life.
Therefore we have to change Figure # 31 into Figure # 32 and forget

Page 13

--- PAGE 177 of 260 ---

[OCR] about Figure # 31 completely. It was used to bring about the final
but right conception. That this is carrect we shall see presently
because we shall find seon Cherubs at 30° Pisces (O° Aries) as
posts, and we cannot very well afford to have a tree at that place,
Finally, she did eat of the fruit: Mercury at 15° Aquarius; she
gave Adam of it; Adam also became conjunction ta 15° Aquarius. He
also did eat. Whether there is any meaning to the Special stress:
she did eat and he did eat, is not clear so far, We may discover
a meaning soon.

VERSE 7: We note that the eyes of both were opened and they knew;
this was due to its being the Tree of Knowledge; and they ate: it
must logically also be the Tree of food.

The eye opening episode requires us to make 2 picture of their
present position at 15° Aquarius, Figure # 33. The next picture,
# 33a, we show the Fig leaf that grew out of 15° Aquarius. The
picture is rather crude, but it answers our purpose. In Figure #
33b, we superimpose one above the other by just denoting the points
tn the Zodiae where they touch the periphery. First of all, we see
the aprons now, although both aprons fall into one Single apron due
to the fact that both are at the same place {Adam and Eve at 15°
Aquarius).

The sentence “they sewed fig leaves together" may temporarily
bring forth the idea that one was standing opposite each other,
i.e. Adam at 15° Aquarius and Eve at 15° Leo, or vice-verse. This
may be sa and it may not be so. We are Sure, of course, that it
was either a conjunction or an opposition, but we do not have to
worry about this just yet; we shall have many cases upon which to
rectify the conception if necessary later.

VERSE 8: They heard a “voice walking". Gad being Mars and also
Adam being Mars, this simply is an identification of having to da
with ane and the same person at one place, which person is walking.
I consider this a very clever piece of work to cover up a second,
imaginary person wherein the first person is actually meant.

It happened in the cool of the day. The time was therefore
either morning or evening. This statement, { believe, is just
brought forth to get some of the Searchers off the track, by
insinuating it may be the Sun which it is mot. The balance of the
statement is story because we just established the fact that there
were only two trees.

Note, that there is never an question about an apple tree or
such nonsense as you hear once in 2 while.

VERSE 9: This again is very clever: we find Many times later on
such statements when we have to look for persons or cities or
altars. The word “him” should have been "himself".

VERSE 10: He was hiding himself means: he was just then under the
Tree of Knowledge, hiding behind 15° Aquarius.

VERSE 11: The woman gave me off the tree means: Mercury was first
to reach 15° Aquarius.

VERSE 12: I did eat means: finally I reached also 15° Aquarius.

VERSE 13: Saturn beguiled me (Mercury) and I did eat. Each one
admits separately this fact. It appears thus that we do not have

Page l¢

--- PAGE 178 of 260 ---

[OCR] a conjunction between Mercury and Mars exactly at 15° Aquarius but
a little distance away. No doubt this fact must be important, else
it would not be stressed through several verses.

VERSE 14: Mars # 1 begins to talk now to the serpent:
thou are cursed 1) above the Cattle
2) above every beast of the field,

Figure # 34 shows the combination. Our Figure # 16 shows the
Cattle and Figure # 20 shows the beasts of which we have eliminated
Virgo and substituted Capricorn.

Our Figure # 3 shows that Aries is morning or East, Cancer is
aoon or South, Libra is West or evening and Capricorn is midnight
or North. Aquarius is therefore at the northernmost end,
explaining somewhat the meaning: to be cursed “above” all cattle
and above all beasts.

"“Gpon they belly shalt thou go" is pointing to the
abbreviation of the sign Aquarius, wavy lines; I call them "the
jitters" because sometimes the action of Saturn, respectively of
the sign of Aquarius, is liable to really give you "the jitters".
The natural movement of a serpent is in wavy lines.

“Dust shalt thou eat” refers to the sign's position, being in
the earth, together with Sagittarius and Capricorn. Note that the
same story treats exclusively the three planets of the earth: Mars-
Mercury-Saturn, and the scene is in the middle of Aquarius under
the Tree of Knowledge. We also must note that so far no other
planet appeared in the picture and that our motion started with 0°
Sagittarius.

Mars, in the form of the Lord, made his round beginning at 0°
Aries and landed at 0° Sagittarius when he made a double, his image
at that point. This double seemingly travelled around the Zodiac
completely and all alone until he obtained the help meet at
Capricorn, Thus, the original motion of the Lord was 240° from 0°
Aries to 0° Sagittarius, followed by a new motion under a new name
(a new cycle) that began at 0° Sagittarius and ended at 0’
Capricorn which measured 390°. ‘This makes all told up to the time
of the creation of Mercury 630°. From then on until we come to 15°
Aquarius, Mars and Mercury moved around an extra 45° and Saturn,
the serpent, was laying for them at 15° Aquarius.

We may group them now as to their ages: Mars, the eldest;
Mercury the female Mars, the next; Saturn the youngest of the
three. This is, of caurse, contrary to all common knowledge, but
here it is stated to be so and I da not doubt the Bible in the
least. Therefore we have so far no Sun, no Venus, and no Jupiter,
unless we think of "the lights" when we found Jupiter as being the
light of the day.

“All the days of thy life" means: leave Saturn in Aquarius and
do not try to put him in some ather sign.

VERSE 15: Capricorn and Aquarius are enemies; thus Saturn and
Mercury are enemies. The same is true between Saturn's seed and
Mercury's seed. This is very important for later work. Aspects
between Saturn and Mercury are unfavourable (word indecipherable)
to the location of the seed of each of them. We have to be
satisfied so far (until we find the other laws) to accept the idea
of "seed" as being the next following sign. With Saturn (Aquarius)
we thus use Pisces as being the next sign, the seed of Aquarius,

Page 15

--- PAGE 179 of 260 ---

[OCR] But, with Mercury (Capricorn) we cannot say the next sign because
it would be the enemy. Let us assume for the time being that the
seed of Capricorn is one sign backward, i.e. Sagittarius,

"It shall bruise thy head” and “thou shalt bruise his heel” is
rather complicated to explain, but with a drawing it is mighty
simple. As we shall see in Genesis Chapter 49, verse 33, a man
alive has his foot apart, but when dead his feet are clased. The
stretch between the foot is always 30". Thus a man with his head
in 0° Sagittarius has one foot (heel of the foot) at 15° Taurus
(the right foot) and the left foot at 15° Gemini; Figure #36. The
full length of his arms is 105° and the arm actually begins 30°
before the head and ends 75° of the other side of the head. This,
of course, on both sides. See Figure # 37. When the man is dead,
he is seemingly just an empty spoke of the wheel; Figure # 35: 0°
Sagittarius - 0° Gemini.

"It", the seed, shall bruise thy hand; therefore we have to
look at the arm of Sagittarius (the seed of Mercury or Capricorn)
and see where it swings to. From Figure # 39, we note that the
right arm swings over to 15° Aquarius, just barely missing the head
of Saturn. "Thou", Saturn, shalt bruise his heel, i.e. the heel of
his own seed, Pisces. Laoking at our picture, we note that the two
heels, Pisces’ right heel and Saturn's left heel meet against each
other at 15° Leo. Figure # 38 just shows Capricorn and Aquarius
standing together; hawever, we cannot use their picture in this
case, because it speaks only of their seed.

VERSE 16: I, "Mars", will multiply thy sorrow

and [ will multiply thy conception.
The German text is much hetter; it says, I will cause you great
pain when you are pregnant (while you are); with pain shalt though
bring forth a child: your will shall be subject to your husband and
he shal! be your ruler.

Now this sounds better and can be understood. We shall
discover that when a female planet becomes Pregnant, a certain time
will elapse until she brings forth the child. During this time
Mars is very pernicious towards Mercury and evil towards it (in

aspects},
Next rule shown in this is: whenever you judge Mercury, look
for Mars, because Mars has her under his will. Therefore any

astrology book which enumerates rules for Mercury is useless
because Mercury actually can do nothing without Mars.

Another rule we can deduce from this is: the sign of Capricorn
rules nothing; it is ruled by Sagittarius, i.e. by Mars via his
wife, Mercury.

VERSE 17: The Lord says to Adam (Mars says to Mars himself): cursed
by thy ground, i.e. the sign of Sagittarius. This means that
during the passage of Mars through Sagittarius, i.e. in 1937 from
August 9th to October lst, very little will grow, thus we have to
expect higher prices of products that come from the soil during
this period and even beyond. My forecasts, both for cotton and
wheat as checked just now, show rising prices during this period
and beyond. When we consider the Sun for a moment, we know that he
Passes through Sagittarius each year from November 22nd to December
22nd, a period that surely does net bring forth much grass. of
course, the Sun is not meant here at all and please do not refer

Page 16

--- PAGE 180 of 260 ---

[OCR] this statement as meaning the Sun;. Mars is meant. :

There is another view possible. The verse may mean that
nothing shall grow during the "Adam" cycle, i.e. as long as Mr.
Adam is alive.

VERSE 18: He (Mars) shail eat the herb of the field. Herb we have
seen is Capricorn. He shall eat bread with the sweat of his face
until he returned again to the ground, i.e. til he comes back into
Sagittarius, This implies that there actually should be a famine
for about two years; it takes Mars twa years to get around the
Zodiac. This seems to be true during the years when Saturn is in
Aquarius, and Mercury and Mars meet at 15° Aquarius (serpent
story). Thus we can distinguish a minor cycle (transit of Mars
through Sagittarius) and a major cycle, serpent story until Mars
comes back into Sagittarius two years later.

Mars is dust, i.e. earth of Sagittarius and he shall return to
dust, i.e. again to the earth, Sagittarius, which completes
evidently then just one cycle or his own “Adam cycle",

The expression "in the sweat of thy face” can be construed
that he will eat bread while in the Sign of Gemini which is
opposite his own sign. All we have to do is construct the man in
the Zodiac and note that when Mars is in Gemini he actually looks
at his own face which is opposite Gemini. The meaning of sweat I
seemingly cannot explain.

VERSE 20: Capricorn is the mother of all living; thus Mercury is
the mother of all living. This must be specially retained.

VERSE 21: The coats of skin we shall see from Exodus Chapter 25,
verse 3, are: for Eve a coat of goat's hair; for Adam, a ram's skin
dyed red. This really should mean: Picture these two constantly
thus: Mercury with the goat's hair coat and Mars always with the
coat of ram's skin dyed red and you will always be able to keep
them apart so that you don't make any errors.

VERSE 22: Mars said to the little Mars: You, Mars, are now one like
us, i.e, grown up evidently, because the conjunction Mars-Mercury
at 15° Aquarius may have made him mature (marriage 7). He now
knows what is good and bad. This virtue seems to be only acquired
the moment 2a planet passes 15° Aquarius and therefore we must
deduce that a son or daughter born on the other Side of 15°
Aquarius is immature through practically a whole cycle (depending
upon the birth place) until finally when reaching 15° Aquarius it
becomes mature.

Thus, in order to avoid that, he reaches forth with his hand
(see Pigure # 39 again) which so far only reaches up to 15°
Aquarius, he, as he proceeds in motion will in time also reach over
to 15° Pisces, the Tree of Life and he would live for ever, thus
the Lord chased him out of Eden.

VERSE 23: He must have chased him via Pisces, Aries etc so that he
could now make his round through the Zodiac and land again over in
the field, in Sagittarius where he is supposed to till the ground.
This also implies the following idea: Mars is sent out on the road
thraugh the Zodiac to "till the ground”, i.e. to bring about the
various events on this earth through coming into aspects with other
planets,

Page 1?

--- PAGE 181 of 260 ---

[OCR] VERSE 24: He placed a2 guardian at the East of the Garden of Eden,
the Cherubim, which, incidentally is again Mars, The flame is
Mars, “of a sword" means Mars, which turned every way, because Mars
is God. This latter expression may imply something yet which must
be searched later on.

"Turned every way” could mean Mars aspects are active in every
direction, i.e. forward or backward when measuring from Mars, while
aspects from other planets may only be measured in one direction,
for example, only forward, but not backward. Ta illustrate better:
for example Mars at 15° Aquarius and Jupiter at 15° Taurus. This
would be a Mars square to Jupiter; however, not a square Jupiter to
Mars, hecause Jupiter, according to this theory, would only be able
to cast a square from 15° Taurus to a planet which would be at 15°
Lea, i.e. only forward. However, when measuring from Mars at 15°
Aquarius, we would have a square to Jupiter at 15° Taurus and,
suppose the Sun would be at 15° Scorpio, then Mars would also east
a square to him (at the same time, though, the Sun would cast a
square to Mars).

This ends Chapter 3 of Genesis. Soa far the first cycle was
rather uninteresting because the planets did no travelling so far.

The only place where we stopped was at 15° Aquarius. No other
interference was met. This soon will change when we come into the
wanderings. We then shall stop at so many places in the Zodiac

with the various planets. Others shall be born and matters become
really interesting,

CHAPTER 4

When we try to locate a cycle that would give us Mars at 0°
Sagittarius and Mercury at 0° Capricorn, furthermore their motion
from then on should be such that both would reach about the same
time 15° Aquarius and meet Saturn there too, and besides, Mercury
should be retrograde about there, then we would have a true Adam
cycle. Trying for it, we run into big difficulties, because these
cycles are very rare and far apart. The two nearest [ have been
able to find are: early January 1894, when Mercury is at 0°
Capricorn and Mars at 2° 50' Sagittarius, but Saturn was at that
time way back in Libra which denotes that it cannot be that cycte
at all. The next one very close is 1875, when Saturn passed
through Aquarius, Mars at O° Sagittarius, but then Mereury is way
off.

There are possibly 500 or even 1000 such cycles passing before
the right ane repeats and each of these eycles is at least 30 years
of our time long, because it takes Saturn that long to get around
the Zodiac. The observations of those ancient writers must have
extended into several thousand of years successively and as we
felve deeper into the subject you will be astonished what they
now.

We are sure that Mars was conjunct Mercury at 15° Aquarius
with Saturn at the same place. The first birth could not have
happened in Eden but it must have occurred beyond Eden. Adam knew
Eve necessitated another conjunction. This could have happened in
Aries, because when we consult the ephemeris in 1894 we find Mars
early that year at 0° Sagittarius, remaining the whole year between

Page 18

--- PAGE 182 of 260 ---

[OCR] Sagittarius and Aries being retrograde a lang time. This gave
Mercury a chance to get around the Zodiac so as to make his next
conjunction with Mars in the end degrees of Aries,

VERSE 1: Cain was born and he was a man from the Lord. The German
text (Luther's) however says: I have the man, the Lord. This is
something else and it means that she bore a little Mars, and she
evidently bore him in Aries indicating that Mars in Aries is of the
Cain type.

VERSE 2: She (Mercury) kept on moving and bore his brother, Abel.
His brother is Jupiter. He was a shepherd, while Cain was a
farmer. One, Jupiter, belongs into Aries, while the brother, Cain,
belongs into Sagittarius (see later Jacab and Esau). In the second
case we have twins while in this case we have one birth followed by
the other. I shall use throughout the German text because it is
much better.

VERSE 3: These two planets kept on rotating through the Zodiac:
Cain (Mars) came into a position that he could bring an offering of
the fruit of the ground. The only place where this could have
happened when we construct our man inte the Zodiac is at 15”
Aquarius and nowhere else. We find then that the right hand of
Mars reaches 0° Taurus which is the place of the Lord as we shall
see in the story of the Deluge later, In as much as in the next
verse (4) Jupiter also brings an offering unto the Lord he must
have had his hand coming from the other side which also reaches 0°
Taurus; ergo Jupiter was then at 15° Cancer. Both are therefore
found in an angle of 150° to each other from Aquarius to Cancer.
The Lord (Mars) liked Jupiter's gifts, but did not care much for
his own. Figure # 40 a. (Check what happened in the markets when
this constellation oceurs).

VERSE 6: Mars changes his behaviour at 15° Aquarius. Checking
events in markets we note that every time Mars reaches 15‘ Aguarius
we get an upmove in the markets.

VERSE 7: This alludes to the sin again {Serpent story, showing
that we are at the place). His (Jupiter's) desire shall be towards
him (Mars) and you (Mars) shall rule over him. Therefore we have
the following rule: Mars rules Jupiter,

VERSE 8: Mars talked with Jupiter in the field (Sagittarius);
therefore quite some time must have elapsed between this story and
the one in the previous verse. We know it takes Jupiter one year
to pass from one sign to the next and from Cancer to Sagittarius we
have five signs to go; besides, not only Jupiter must be in
Sagittarius but Mars as well. Furthermore, Mars must have heen
direct and Jupiter retrograde while this conjunction occurred
because it says: Cain rose, i.e. went direct and furthermore he
went against him which means the other had to be retrograde. These
types of conjunctions are very rare and far between as a check will
reveal,

VERSE 9 and 10: Mars said Mars: Where is Jupiter ? "I am not his
keeper", he answers, because he is his ruler. "The vaice of thy
brother’s blood cries to me from the earth". First of all we are
right ta place this episode into Sagittarius, the earth. 1 cannot

Page 19

--- PAGE 183 of 260 ---

[OCR] explain the "of someone's bload).

VERSE 11: Here we hit onto a snag that must be clarified and
changed accordingly. It says: the Earth opened its mouth. Looking
at the earth Figure # 21, we may define the mouth of the earth just
the centre between 0° Sagittarius and 0° Pisces which would give us
15° Capricorn. Furthermore it says: the earth has received the
blood through your hands. When we construct hands so as to touch
at 15° Capricorn, we must have Mars either at 0° Scorpio or at 0°
Aries, because the arms are just 75° away from the head (the
hands}. This would therefore mean that the death of Abel occurred
not in Sagittarius, but at 15° Capricorn, exactly opposite our
place of offering (15° Cancer) and Mars was then at 0° Aries, which
is the place of birth of both of them (successively).

Thus the entire Cain and Abel story boils down to this: Mars
and Jupiter are born successively in Aries. Jupiter offers at 15°
Cancer and Mars offers at 15” Aquarius. They are 150° apart at
this time.

Mars is at 0° Aries again when he kills Jupiter who is at that
time at 15° Capricorn. Thus ends one cycle. It is up to us to
figure out how many rotations of each of these planets are needed
to bring about the same original positions.

VERSE 11 says further: You, Mars, you are cursed from the earth,
you are no good if you are passing through the earth and
furthermore,

VERSE 12: from new on (since that cycle is completed: this does
not apply to the previous cycle just discussed, which must be
carefully searched in which cycle we are actually moving now !!)
the earth shall not yield her strength to you. From now on {in
this new cycle) you shall be a fugitive and a vagabond on the
earth, meaning from 0” Sagittarius to 0° Pisces. This cycle
evidently should end again when a new Cain and Abel are born again
under a different name (see Moses and Aaron which represent the
next cycle; also Jacob and Esau, the latter in a slight variation,
being born as twins).

VERSE 8 which was overlooked: Mars (the Lord!) ended the cycle of
Jupiter by killing him.

VERSE 13: Mars says to Mars (see Chapter 3, verse 9).
VERSE 14: "this day" means a new cycle has just begun.

VERSE 15: He who kills a Mars cycle shall be revenged seven-fold.
The Lord made a sign on Mars so that nobady would kill him. I refer
you to the sign of the cross which is always found through the
Bible when it speaks about the Lord: Mars.

VERSE 16: Mars went to live on the other side of Eden, towards the
East in the Land of Nod, which must be Aries, possibly also the
sector Aries to Cancer.

VERSE 17: Mars saw his woman which must be Mercury again because
this is the only planet we use so far and she bare Henoch. Note
that this is now three times that Mercury bore a son, The first
union Mars-Mercury produced a Mars; the second one a Jupiter and
the third one is Henoch. In the genealogy that I bring now in the

Page 20

--- PAGE 184 of 260 ---

[OCR] illustration, we must use these births always one sign and then the
following one, going around the Zodiac in this manner. In that
production of lineage we must adhere strictly to the way it is
produced and nothing can be overlooked else we get all wrong. The
origin was Adam, Sagittarius, the next was Eve-Capricorn; the next
was Cain-Aquarius; (Abel has nothing to do with the series); the
next one is Henoch-Pisces; the next Irad-Aries; next Mehujael-
Taurus; Methusaol-Gemini; Lamech-Cancer. This brings us to
Verse 18: now, verse 19 goes on: Ada is Leo and is female; Zilla is
Virgo and is Female: Jabal is Libra, male; Jubal is Scorpio, male;
Tubalcain (the real Cain !! - Mars) is Sagittarius and lastly we
have Naema, female which is Capricorn.

Anticipating here now we see that females are only:
Capricorn, Leo and Virgo; no other sign as far as we can
distinguish.

VERSE 17: Henoch buiit a city called Henoch in Pisces (Cain did
build it).

VERSE 19: Lamech (Mars in Cancer) took two wives: Ada and Zilla;
therefore it looks as if Mars, while passing through the signs of
Leo and Virgo, suddenly becomes of female sex !!

Mars female af Leo bore Jabal, Libra Mars, of whom came those
who dwell in tents and who grow cattle.

VERSE 21: His brother (Libra Mars is a brother of Scorpio Mars)
Jubal, Scorpio produces the ones who play the violin and the flute
(see later in the psalms when we find the various orchestras).

VERSE 22: Mrs Zilla, Virgo, produced Tubalcain, Sagittarius who is
master in all sorts of ore and iron, This means: natives who have
Mars in that sign are fit for those types of work. The sister of
Tubaleain is Naema, the same as Eve was the wife of Adam.

The above genealogy is shown in Figure # 42. However in Figure #
41, It shall bring another conception of how this genealogy could

run. I do nat believe it is the right idea, but we may need it
later on for comparison. Adjustments if necessary are made
quickly. I worked about one month to bring both in shape. In

Figure # 41 I assume Sagittarius and Capricorn to be occupied still
by Adam and Eve. This is remote, in as much as my experience has
shown that if a new chapter begins, a new and different cycle
independent of the previous one, is in the making. Thus we stick
to Figure # 42.

From what I know from later chapters, children are only born
when the male planet (Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) are in opposition
to the female planets whereby the females are in Leo and Virgo, the
males therefore in Aquarius and Pisces. On the oather hand,
children are born when a male planet comes to a conjunction with a
female planet in Capricorn. Mercury seems to be a male throughout,
but a female in Leo, Virgo and Capricorn. Venus seems to be female
throughout. The statement that Mars could change his sex I think
is wrong. Mars, God, can never he female. This was stated
erroneously. Each male planet has his female planet to whom he
gets married. However, should he get into opposition to another
female planet that is not supposed to be his from Aquarius or
Pisces (the female one in Lea or Virgo) then that planet is
evidently his concubine. In Capricorn we have the same condition

Page 21

--- PAGE 185 of 260 ---

[OCR] but the act is a conjunction.

The man called Tubaicain, which we note is Sagittarius is Mars
and Tubal most likely means "real or actual", while Cain out of
Aquarius may be the "pseudo-Cain".

Lamech is our Mars # 2; he had two wives, Leo and Virgo.
Ada, i.e. Leo as a woman produced: Jabal or Libra and Jubal or
Scorpio. Figure # 43.

Zilla as a woman, i.e. Virgo, Produced: Tubaleain or
Sagittarius and Naoma or Capricorn (Eve), Pigure # 44.

Pigure # 45 shows how we have to apply the idea of tent
dwellers and such as have cattle. We use our 150° angles right
through as we began with Cain and Abel. Therefore, Jabal or Libra
should be the father of Libra itself and of Taurus. Jubal,
Scorpio, which is his brother, was the father of all such as handle
the harp and organ (German text: violinists and flute players).
This idea we show in Figure # 46. We note in our drawings that
Libra corresponds to the sign of Taurus thus, moving on each side
one sign ahead, we get the next corresponding signs: Gemini and
Scarpia.

In Figure # 42 we note that Lamech is Cancer; he speaks to his
wives, Leo and Virgo. Thus: speaking to someone should mean that
two planets are either 30° or 60° away from each other. We note
that Lamech is also 150° away from Cain. This is five signs away
from the point of origin, 06° Aquarius, Now, the sevenfold
evidently means seven signs and when we Put the two wives inta the
count we obtain actually seven signs. Supposing Mars (Cain) was
slain, he would revive seven Signs later or at 0° Virgo. On the
other hand, when Mars # 2 which is Cancer gets slain, I would
interpret it as if he would have no effect for 77 consecutive
signs, he will be dead that long. This is an immense period; it
takes Mars about 24 years ta get through 12 signs or it would
consume over 15 years he then should re-awake.

The remark: I have slain a man to my wounding and a young man
to my hurt should mean this: Lamech, Mars # 2 has slain a man.
This can only be a Mars cycle; either Mars # 1 at 0° Sagittarius
which might end at 15° Cancer, or even Mars who sits on the throne
at O° Taurus or remotely Cain at 15° Aquarius as we may see from
Figure # 43. The young man is Jupiter who was slain at the very
Place, 15° Cancer, by Cain (Mars). The slaying occurred either
with: hand (0° Taurus), with the faot {O° Sagittarius or 15°
Aquarius) or with the head (15° Cancer).

In Figure # 46 I bring now the homes of the various planets
wherein they belong accerding to this story. And Figure # 49
dissects these signs once more into true fashion.

Figure # 47 reveals:

1) Mars rules Sagittarius and Capricorn

2) his wife, Mercury, rules Gemini and Cancer

3) Saturn rules Aquarius and Pisces

4) his wife, the Sun {seemingly) rules Leo and Virgo

5) Jupiter rules Aries and Taurus

6) his wife, Venus, rules Libra and Scorpio
That this is a radical departure from “book astrology" is obvious.
Here we have a reason for the division. When we now look at our
Figures # 45 and 46 and see the "flop-overs" and remember that
Capricorn is female and actually Mercury, we may say: Sagittarius

Page 22

--- PAGE 186 of 260 ---

[OCR] is the male Mars and Capricorn is the female Mars or Mercury.
Using the same idea throughout we get:

~ Aquarius is the male Saturn and Pisces is the female Saturn
ar the Sun;

- Aries is the male Jupiter and Taurus the female Jupiter or
Venus;

- Gemini is the female Mars or Mercury (flop-over Figure # 45)
and Cancer is the male Mars;

- Leo is the female Saturn or the Sun, and Virgo is the male
Saturn (flop-aver along the line Pisces-Virgo);

- Libra is the female Jupiter or Venus; Scorpio is the male

Jupiter.
The “flop-over™ occurs at an angle of 150°. Thus from one
Planet’s house to his next are always 150°. All Mars, Saturn and

Jupiter signs now turn out to be male and ail Sun, Venus and
Mercury signs prove to be female. We find now that Lamech turns
out to be a second grade Mars, when we term the one in Sagittarius
as being of the first degree. Therefore we use the dividing line
Sagittarius-Gemini and call the right side the side at which all #
l or prime planets are located and the other side, where the number
2 planets are found. Our Figure # 51 shows the arrangement of the
sings in due rotation.

Male signs are Female Signs are
Sagittarius Capricorn
Aquarius Pisces
Aries Taurus
cancer Gemini
Virgo Leo

Scorpice Libra

According to this deduction, it is impossible to reconcile that our
Figure # 42 is correct when we place Mrs. Zilla into Virgo. To the
contrary, we have to build a new picture and therefore we call
Figure # 50 the revised picture of Pigure # 42. We then can
recognize a cycle of re-birth or re-incarnation if such a thing is
possible. We saw Capricorn or Mercury produced from Mars out of
Sagittarius, We saw the birth of Cain, equalling (now we shall
call Cain Saturn which he really is but which we could not do
before in order not to switch your ideas) Saturn; his brother was
Abel or Jupiter in Aries. Saturn had a wife, the Sun which is in
Pisces. Abel of necessity had to have a wife which, even though
not mentioned in the Bible we can see from the figure that it had
to be so: Taurus-Venus. We found that the opposites give us female
conditions: Mars in Sagittarius gives us the female Gemini
(opposite).

Finally, we see from Figure # 52 that the Sun reproduces
Saturn and Jupiter in Virgo and Scorpio, while Figure # 53
reproduces once more our beginning: Adam and Eve in the form of
Tubalcain and Naoma.

The only thing that now needs readjustment is the middle part:
Jabal, the father of the tent dwellers is now Saturn in Virgo.

Jabal, his brother (see how fine this matches now !), Jupiter,
was the father Scorpio, of those that handle the harp and the
organ.

Jabal, Saturn in Virgo is: the father also of those that have

Page 23

--- PAGE 187 of 260 ---

[OCR] cattle. .

We may make a slight readjustment about the "sevenfold", verse
23 which actually started this entire explanation on my part,
Looking now at Figure # 50 we find seven signs that have ta do with
Lamech, including his own; from Cancer to Capricorn, Figure # 46
is out, of course, because Libra cannot be meant to be the young
man anyhow, but Aries (Jupiter) must be meant.

An artificer of brass and iron is surely Mars, just one more
hint that Tubalcain is placed right.

VERSE 25: We fail back to our Adam cycle now: Adam, Mars, knew
Mercury again and she here Seth which becomes Mars in Cancer, i.e.
our old friend Lamech; his cycle started after the Abel cycle had
finished or died, This new cycle is therefore again a Mars cycle.
Seth had a son, Enos, which is Virgo and equal again to Saturn.

Here is now the rule of major cycles; Mars is first cycle:
Saturn is second cycle, at the same time Jupiter runs a cycle;
third cycle, Mars; fourth cycle Saturn. The latter are secondary
cycles as may be seen from Figure # 49. We miss a companion to the
second Saturn cycle, which would be Scorpio (Figure # 49) and wa
simply have to do without that until the Bible says something about
that.

From here on we have to use mathematics and logarithms and
things become for a while more complicated. Be sure that you
understand everything so far.

Chapter 5

VERSE 1: Man was made in the likeness of God, i.e. Mars. Male and
female created he them; we have done so in Figure # 51. The word
"Blessed" is not quite clear. He called their name Adam, here the
plural (i.e. Mars cycles) is used for the singular Adam. This
could refer to Sagittarius, together with Capricorn, or to the
entire Zadiac.

VERSE 3: Adam; Mars, lived one hundred ang thirty years, and begat
a son in his own likeness after his image, i.e, another Mars, and
called his name Seth; we know that one is at 0° Cancer, or 210°
away from Adam.

Therefore 130 years means 210° in the motion of the planets.
Thus, dividing 210 by 130 gives us the length of one year. 210°
equal 1260 minutes in are (note this value occurs often in the
Revelation as we shall find later, where it is used for days which
shows us that biblical days are meant to be minutes try.

1260' = 130 is equal to 96' 55.3846"

or to 1° 36’ 55.3846"

This is 1 year of the Bible.

One month is therefore one twelfth part of that value or 484.615"
: or 8' 4,615".

One day amounts to 16.154" when we divide the month by 30.

The log (Logarithm) of 1 year is 3.7645784.

In all the following we simply have to multiply the given years by

1* 36' 55.3846" and we have definitely located the birthplaces and

the places of their deaths in the Zodiac, Por the number of the

ages we use the Logarithm thereof, adding to it the Logarithm of

Page 24

--- PAGE 188 of 260 ---

[OCR] the year; this gives us the Logarithm of the cycle, and from this
we have the cycle.

Before we begin the calculations, we turn the value of 1° 36'
55,3846" into seconds and obtain 5815.3846". We have to use the
seven places Briggs Logarithms. The log of 5815.3846" is
3.7645784,.

VERSE 4 and 5:

log 930 2.9684829

log @ 3.7645784

6.7330613; this equals 5408300".

Thereby 930 represents the years that Adam lived, Log @ represents
our fixed value of 5815.3846" which is expressed therein in its
logarithmic equivalent.

5408300" = 60 equals 90138' 20"t
90138" 20" + 60 = 1502° 18° 20" from Adam's birth at 0° Sagittarius
Taking aut 4 circles of 360° leaves 62° 18’ 20",
The place of death of Adam is therefore at 2° 18' 20" Aquarius.
Adam was born at 0° Sagittarius, conceived his son Seth at 0°
Cancer and died 4 cycles plus 62° 18' 20" later at 2° Aquarius 18°’
20" (Figure # 53 a).

VERSE 6: 105 years from 0° Cancer

log 105 2.0211893

log @ 3.7645784

5.7857677; this equals 610615".

610615 = 60 is 10176* 55":
10176 " 55" 3 60 is 169° 36° 55” from birth at O° Cancer. This
value equals 19° 36' 55" Sagittarius as the Place of birth of Enos,
the son of Seth.

VERSE 8: Seth's entire age was 912 years.

lag 312 2.95999448

log @ 3.7645784

6.7245732; this equals 5303630":

5303630 + 60 is $8393" 20"

$8393" 20" + 60 is 1473° 13' 20" from 0° Cancer;
taking out 4 circles of 360° we have left 33‘ 13" 20° from 0°
Cancer which is 3° 13' 20" Leo as the place of birth of Seth.

90 years from 19° 36' 55” Sagittarius

log 90 1.9542425

log @ 3.7645784
5.7188209; this log equals 523385'.
VERSE 9: 523385" + 60 is 8723' 5%:

8723" 5" = 60 is 145° 23° 5".
Adding this value to 19° 36' 55” Sagittarius we get 165° 00° oo'
Sagittarius or 15° 00’ 00" Taurus as the place where Kenan was
conceived.

VERSE 10: Enos was age 905 at time of death:
log 905 2.9566486
log@ 3.7645784
6.7212270; this log equals 5263920".

VERSE 11: 5262920" + 60 is 87715" 20"
87115' 20" + 60 is 1461" 55' 20".
Taking out four circles of 360° which amount to 1440°, we have 21°

Page 25

--- PAGE 189 of 260 ---

[OCR] 55' 20" left; adding these te the place of birth of Enos 19° 36!
55" Sagittarius gives us 41° 32! 15" Sagittarius and this equals
21° Capricorn 32’ 15"

Enos died at 21° 32’ 15" Capricorn.

VERSE 12: 70 years from 15° Taurus
log 70 1.8450980
log@ 3.7645784
5.6096764; this log equals 407077";
407077" + 60 is 6784' 37”
6784' 37" + 60 is 113° 04’ 37" from 15° Taurus or 128°
04' 37°" Taurus which is equal to 8° 04' 37" Virgo,

VERSE 13: Kenan's age was 910 years
log 910 2.9590414
log@ 3.7645784
6.7236918 ("exact") equals 5292000";

VERSE 14: 5292000 = 60 is 88200':

88200' + 60 is 1470" from 15° Taurus;
Taking out 4 circles @ 360° or 1440° leaves 30° Plus 4 circles or
15° Gemini

Kenan dies at 15° Gemini.

At 65, Mahalaleel conceived Jared;

log 65 1.8129134

log@ 3.7645784

5.5774918 ("exact"); this log equals 378000".

378000" + 60 is 6300';

6300" + 60 is 105° 00° 00” from 8° 04° 37" Virgo which
gives us 113° 04' 37" Virgo or 23° 04' 37" Sagittarius.

Jared was conceived at 23° 04‘ 37" Sagittarius.

VERSE 15: Mahalalaeel‘s age was 895 years.
log 895 2.9518230
log@ 3.7645784
6.7164014 which log equals 5204770";

VERSE 16: §204770 = 60 is 86746' 10"
86746’ 10" + 60 is 1445° 46° 1o".
Taking out four circles or 1440° we have 5° 46! 10" left to be
added to the birth which occurred at 8° 04' 37" Virgo.
Therefore Mahalaleel died at 13° 50' 47" Virgo.

VERSE 17: Jared 162 years
2.2095150
3.7645784
5.9740934 or 942092"
15701' 32”
; 261° 41‘ 32" from 23° 04' 37" Sagittarius
1s
VERSE 18: Henoch conceived at 14° 46' 99" Virgo
Jared 962 years when he died:
2.9831751
3.7645784
6.7477535 is 5594400" ("exact")
93240'
1554°* o0' 90”

Page 26

[———] = ——a =— =—_ oo

--- PAGE 190 of 260 ---

[OCR] VERSE 19: less 4 x 360° 1440°
_ 114° £Erom 23° 04" 37" Sagittarius or
137° 04° 37" Sagittarius

VERSE 20: This equals 17° 04’ 37" Aries where Jared died.
Nenoch 65 conceived Methuselah; this value is the same as
Mahalaleel’s and we just use the same value: 105° o0o'.
Henoch born at 14° 46’ 09" Virgo
Plus 105°

VERSE 21: 119° 46° 09" Virgo or 29° 46’ 99" Sagittarius.
VERSE 22: Methuselah was conceived at 29° 46’ 09" Sagittarius.

Henoch 365 years. 2.5622929

3.7645784
6.3268713 = 2122620"
35377"
589° 37'
less 1 circle 360°
229° 37°

adding this te 14° 46' 09" Virgo gives 244° 23' 09" Virgo.
Henoch died therefore at 4° 23' 09" Taurus. He was not seen
anymore; this means that cycle does not re-occur anymore,

VERSE 25: Methuselah 187 years 2.2718416
3.7645784
6.0364200 or 1087477"
18124' 37"
302° 04' 37”
Methuselah was born at 29° 46' 09” Sagittarius
Plus 302" 04' 37"
331" 50' 46" Sagittarius or
1° 50° 46" Scorpia,
Lamech was conceived at 1° 50" 46" Scorpio
Methuselah died 969 years old.
2.9863238
3.7645784
6.7509022 equals 5635110"
93918' 30"
1565° 18' 390”
reject 4 circles 1440°
125° 18° 30" from 29° 46’ 09" Sagittarius.

VERSE 26: this is 155° 04°’ 39% Sagittarius or 5° 04' 39" Taurus
plus 4 x 360°.

VERSE 27: Methuselah died at 5° 04' 39” Taurus.

VERSE 28 and 29: Lamech 182 years conceived Noah
2.2600714
3.7645784
6.0246698 or 1058450"
17640' 50”
294° 00' S50"
added to 1° 50' 46” Scorpio
gives 295° $1' 36” Scorpio or

Noah was conceived at 25° 51’ 36" Leo.
Lamech lived 777 years.
Read back Chapter 3, verse 24. Now we get the explanation of this

Page 27?

--- PAGE 191 of 260 ---

[OCR] verse. Log 777 2.8904210

log@ 3.7645784
6.6549994 or 4518552"
79309" 212"
1255" o9* 12”
reject 3 circles 1080°
175* a9' 12"
adding this to 1° 50' 46” Scorpio
gives us 176° 59’ 58" Scorpio and thus we

are off 2 full seconds!! with our logarithms to hit the full o!f?.
It necessarily should be 177° 00° 00" Scorpio or 27° 00' 00” Aries,

VERSE 30 and 31: Lamech died at 27 Aries plus 3 cycles.
VERSE 32: Noah 500 years
2.6989700
3.7645784
6.4635484 or 2907697"
48461' 37"
sav” 41' 37"
less 2 x 360° 720°

87° 41° 37" from 25° 51° 36° Leo
or 113° 33° 13" Leo which equals
23° 33' 13" Scorpio as the birth place of
Sham, Ham and Japhet.

The series runs as follows:

Name born died add circles
Adam O° Sagittarius 2° 18' 20" *~ 4
Seth O° Cancer a 3° 13' 20" JL 4
Enos 19° 36’ 55” 21° 32' 15" v6 4
Cainan 15° 00’ 00" ¥ 15" 00' 00” A 4
Mahalaleel 8° 04! 377 we 13° 50° 47° WR 4
Jared 23° 04° 37" x7 17° a4 37" 7 4
Henoch 147 46’ 09" “ 47 23' 09" & 1
Methuselah 29° 46' go" x? 5° 04" 39" OF 4
Lamech 1° S0' 46" ma 27° oo’ oo" ¥ 3
Noah (Naema) 25° 51° 36" J
Shem, Ham
& Japhet 23° 33' 13" MA

To satisfy you temporarily on the autcome of these studies we look
for a moment at the performance of stocks, at the major tops and
bottoms:

August 24th, 1921 major bottom: Mars at 13° 51' Leo, 30° away
from the place of death of Mahalaleel.

September 3rd, 1929, major top: Mars at 8° 04' 37" Libra, 30°
away from the birth place of Mahalaleel. At the same time Jupiter
was 90° away from Henoch's birth place at 14° 46°.

VERSE 24 tells us: Enoch walked with God and he was not; this means
we have not here to do with continuous Mars cycles, although the
first one Adam and the second one are Mars cycles; the former is
male the latter also, only one is prime while the other is
secondary.

The division as we have it above gives us already a hint on”

Page 28

--- PAGE 192 of 260 ---

[OCR] how we have to apply these cycles in their rotation. Cainan spells
relationship to Cain and Saturn; Jared spells relation to Jupiter
with an odd name between; in our Figure # 49 we have between Saturn

and Jupiter our Sun in Pisces. Therefore we may say how:
{consulting also Figure # 50) that the

Adam cycle represents Mars # 1

Seth cycle Mars # 2

Enas cycle Sun # 1

Cainan cycle Saturn # 1

Mahalaleel cycle Venus # 1

Jared cycle Jupiter # 1

Henoch cycle . Sun # 1

Methuselah cycle Mercury # 2

Lamech cycle Mars # 2

Noah cycle > Naema Mercury # 1

Shem, Ham and Japhet, a combination of the three big men:

Mars Saturn Jupiter

to verse 22: Enoch (German word is Henoch) walked with God and he
was not, of course not, because we have it the Sun # 1 and taken it
from Cain cycle, Figure # 50. Sun was therefore conjunction Mars
at that time.

End of Chapter 5S.

Chapter 6
Men began to multiply means: cycles began to multiply. "Daughters
were born unto them". Strange it does not say "sons were born unto

them".

The sons of God: Saturn # 1, Jupiter #1, Mars # 2, Saturn #
2 and Jupiter # 2 are evidently meant by that expression. They saw
the daughters of men are evidently:

Mercury # 2, Sun # 2, Venus # 2, in as much as the # 1 are the
wives, therefore we also have to say: the sons of men are : Mars #
2, Saturn # 2 and Jupiter # 2, while the Sons of God would then
turn out to be: Mars # 1, Saturn # 1, and Jupiter # 1 and the
second paragraph above is thus voided.

Man is also flesh is not clear what it manes.

His days shall be 120 years, we know from before that 1 year
equals 1° 36’ 55,3846" and that its log is 3.7645784. We now
figure out how long these 120 years are in degrees.

log 120 2.0791812
log@ 3.7645784
5.8437596 or 6978460"
11630" 46"
193° 50" 46”
This value should therefore be the length of one single cycle for
any of the men.

VERSE 4: Giants in the earth means: in Sagittarius, Capricorn and
Aquarius. "Also after that’ means: in Pisces. Later on we will
find many giants in Pisces.

"when the sons of God came in", This sounds just contrary.

July 21st, 1937: After continuing my studies deeper and deeper

Page 29

--- PAGE 193 of 260 ---

[OCR] into the Bible, making complete notes of interpretation right along
so that I have about 400 pages worked up roughly already, I have
stepped over into two books, called Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha,
which are Bibles or parts of the Bible that never were published
before, at least not incorporated into the Bible proper. Studying
them now for over two months, I found that they were written
somewhat different, somewhat easier than the original Bible and
certain slants which i was able to take from them will now helps
tremendously toward the interpretation of the actual Bible. The
two volumes mentioned can be had from the Oxford University Press.

Re-explanation of Chapter 6, verse 3.

Inasmuch as God allows them another 193° 50' 46” before he punishes
them, we know from the Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha that his home
is at 15° 00' 00" Cancer; therefore he was just then at 1° 09’ 14"
Capricorn. This place is in the earth.

Now, in explaining VERSE 4, I found that the conceptions and
the production of children always occurs in the earth and nowhere
else. It does not accur in the heaven. Mars does not produce
children as far as I could find, although we have had a few verses
before where it says: the children of God. This must mean “the
planets" in general and these children produce children, However,
he seems to have his hand in it. I found cases when Mars is 30°
away from a male and also from a female planet at the same time and
anew, important cycle begins in the market. Thus it seems (I am
not quite sure as yet) that a birth can only occur in the earth and
planets must be 30° apart. The male planet is most likely the one
which comes in question that has to be in the earth; the female one
may be in the earth or may be outside of it.

VERSES 5 and 6 need no explanation.

VERSE 7: God wants te destroy: from man to cattle, to worms and to
the birds underneath the heaven. Man is Sagittarius, worms are
Aquarius and birds are also Aquarius and cattle is Capricorn. So
that the sector we call earth i.e. 0° Sagittarius to 0° Pisces
disappears,

VERSE 8: Noah found grace hefore the Lord. He was thus
approaching Mars, because it says: before. Who is Noah ? He was
born at 25° 51' 36" Leo and equals a Mercury cycle.

Now from what I studied in the Pseudepigrapha when they treat
the Patriarchs, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, etc., the twelve sons of
Jacob, I found that these fellows are all Saturn cycles with a
varied beginning. It therefore is possible that all the cycles of
Adam that we have analyzed so far may be cycles of Mars alone and
nothing else. This, of course is an assumption which we have to
prove later on. The only difference that we may detect is the
nature of the cycle. Thus when we call all Adam’s generation Adam
or Mars cycles, the first one would be a Mars cycle, the second one
also, the third one would become a Martial Sun eycle or a solar
Mars cycle; the fourth would become a Saturnian Mars cycle, the
next one a Venusian Mars cycle, etc. Mars thus would act in the
nature of the other planet which is quite possible, having had much
experience with that in other ways already,

Therefore Noah would be a Mercurian Mars cycle,

Page 30

--- PAGE 194 of 260 ---

[OCR] VERSE 9: he generation of Noah. He, Mars, was a pious Man,
without travel, i.e. he started at the right beginning. NOW we
have ta consider that he began at 25° 51’ Leo which place belongs
to the Sun. But we cannot do anything with this thought, efcerpt
bear it in mind. He, Noah, led the life like God, i.e. like 4@™S.

VERSE 10: He had three sons; Shem, Ham and Japhet. Nothing is 5aid
of daughters. We do not know when or where they were born,

VERSE 11: The earth was wicked before the eyes of God. We have to
remember constantly from now on that when it says: see or hea¥. or
some other action of the body is given, that means: a planet 1§ @
definite amount of degrees and minutes and seconds from the object
which is talked about. Therefore, in our present case, we ha¥® Sod
looking with his eyes to the earth and, when we consider our fan ln
the ellipse, his feet must be on the earth so that he can Look down
to it, He must have been over in Cancer somewhere, probably *V@n
at 15° Cancer.

VERSE 12: This may mean all flesh, i.e. the children produced in
the earth, had spoiled his (Mars') path on the earth. It does net
Seem to mean that the flesh has spoiled its own path.

VERSE 13: God spake to Noah. Speaking is of course also a dis*ance
between two planets, which it is I have not he able to find as Yet.
But in our case he seems to be speaking to himself. In this case
speaking may mean to be at a special place in the Zodiac, provided
one talks to himself. Therefore, let us assume for the moment
because 15° Cancer is net so geod, that he talks to himself at 1°
09' 14" Cancer (see Page 30, explanation of VERSE 4) opposit® the
piace where he allows them 120 years yet. He wants to destroy the
flesh with the earth.

What appears to me to convey as thought is this:

We have make the various divisions ~ men, cattle, birds. &tc.
and nething more can be said about that. Let us clean haous® Now
and begin a brand new idea of how we can approach the subject:

VERSE 14: In Chapter 27 of Exodus, verse 1, we find that the altar
was made of "shittim-wood", the German text of the same gives it as
“Yoehrenholz", the Latin word for it is Pinus, Pine. This 1 have
been able to locate as representing the sign of Libra. tn this
verse the wood is called gopherwood. The German text renders it as
“tTannenholz" and the Latin word for the same is Picea - Sprucé-, In
as much as we have to have a flood, we find ourselves already 12 a
sea, Scorpio which suits us well. Gopher wood, respectively
Spruce, should be Scorpio.

Details about the construction of the Ark.
VERSE 15: Its length is to be 300 ells, the width 50 ells amd the
height 30 ells.

When we go in reverse (inverse) direction from 0° Libra 300
(cubits) we arrive at 0° Sagittarius. This line, 0° Libra t? 0°
Sagittarius would give us the base of the Ark. However, on account
of the pitch we cannot use this idea, because the pitch is meant ta
shut out the water and we have no water at 0° Libra nor @¢ 0°
Sagittarius. Therefore we are going to shift our Ark over 5°
the water is shut out, at feast for the time being. We kno#

oo

Page 31

--- PAGE 195 of 260 ---

[OCR] we have water in Scorpio and also in Pisces. And, by the way, f
have found that the earth extends from Bersabe, or 26° 32' 1g"
Scorpio over to 3° 27' 41" Pisces, adding a little bit of water on
each side of the earth as belonging ta the earth. This is one of
my later discoveries. So that, we now construct the Ark with a
base extending from 26° 32' 18" Scorpio to 3° 27° 41" Pisces, a
length of 96° 55' 23". Measured the other way, we have thus the
heaven being 263° 04° 37.7". The question is now: which value
represents 300 ells ? Most likely 300 ells are 263° 04' 37,7".
Therefore, 1 ell would be 43' 50.77" long. 50 ells would be 36”
32' 38.5" as the width.

This would give us: 26° 32’ 18" Scerpio less 36* 32’ 38.5" or
20° Libra for one corner and 10‘ Aries for the other corner.

Now 30 ells would be 21° 53’ 23", This we have to add on both
sides and we get: 28° 06’ 37" Virgo and 1° 53’ 23" Taurus.

In the Pseudepigrapha I have found similar values also when
figuring other phenomena. The values I had found in that baok
were: 20° 46" Virgo and 0° 13' Taurus. We are therefore 7° 20'
out of the way somewhere,

We keep both values in our mind and see what we can do with
them and later on we have to drop the ane that may prove to be
wrong but both may prove to be right, because as stated, the things
that were looked for with the Pseudepigrapha story was something
else ali together and the count began not on both sides, but at the
end of the earth, i.e, 3° 27' 41" Pisces.

VERSE 15: One window was to come above, This window is at 15°

Cancer and we have to drop the former idea of starting with 1° o9'

Cancer else we get out of symmetry. It is one el] in length,; ona

half of an ell is 21° 55.38". Taking this value off, respectively

adding it to our 15° Cancer, we have as the corner of the windows:
15° 21° 55,38" Cancer and 14° 38' 04.62" Cancer.

VERSE 16: The door is to come in the middle of the side, We have
to assume that the side meant is in Libra, because from other
factors which I found, Libra is the most likely place and not on
the Taurus side.
Therefore the lower part of the side is at 20° 00' 00" Libra
the upper part at 28° 06’ 37" Virga
the middle would thus be at 9* 03° 18.5" Libra.
The Ark is to have three floors. We make them by connecting
the corners opposite each other; see Figure # 55.

VERSE 17 is clear. He wants to have a flood with water (not with
oil or blood) and the flood is to be on the earth and not in the
heaven; he wants to ruin all the flesh in which living souls are
contained below the heaven. We just found or stated that the
heaven extends from 3" 27' 41" Pisces ta 26° 32’ 08" Scorpio. Thus
in this sector we have no flood. The expression: all that is on
the earth shall go down in not clear. “Going down" means setting,
i.e. ta come down from the heaven to the earth, Now something that
is on the earth actually cannot go down any more because it is
down. The meaning evidently could only be: those born in the earth
shall perish. But on the other hand we have seen that nothing as
far as I have discovered is born above the earth, so that does not
explain this sentence either. We shail have to leave this for a

Page 32

--- PAGE 196 of 260 ---

[OCR] while and see whether we do not detect another interpretation for
it.

VERSE 18: God made a covenant, an agreement, with Noah. He shall
go in the box with his sons, with his wife and with the wives of
his sons. The number is thus § people.

In order to go into the box he has ta be at the door and it
seems that in the meanwhile Noah, if it is Mars came down from 15°
and is now at 9° 03' 184" Libra or coming towards it while the
preparations are made for the Flood.

We have four males and 4 females gaing into the box. The
question arises now: are these eight geople to be taken as planets
or are they to be taken as cycles which will be completed during
the Flood or a little while after.

VERSE 19: he is to take pairs of animals with him of flesh, a male
and a female of each. We know that these animals could not be from
the heaven, but only from the earth. Their quantity is nat given.

VERSE 20; one pair of birds
one pair of cattle
one pair of worms

are to go into the Ark. His own male and female have been counted
already, although there were eight of them. Now, this covers again
our earth, in as much as we have going into the Ark: men equalling
Sagittarius, Cattle equalling Capricorn and worms equalling
Aquarius. God thus destroys just the cycles herewith, but saves up
the original frame which we have found and later on when the fload
is supposed to be over then the frame, i.e. men, cattle, birds and
worms are there again. The actual idea why the Flood picture was
produced in the Bible is to convey a change of position of Mars
from 0° Sagittarius over to 15° Cancer a feat which could not be
accomplished any other way than by bringing such a story. So do
you still think there actually was a flood, or is it all just a lot
of hooey to convey an astrological law to better understanding
without the great big masses from king to pauper for a couple of
thousand years ever getting to know what is actually meant by it.
Suggest at this point to visit some second hand book stores and try
to get a copy or two of some "Commentary on the Bible” written by
some “theologian, bishop or some sort of high intelligentsia” and
see how they explain the Deluge and how they have found the exact
year when this had happened.

VERSE 21; He tells him toe take some food along too (hope it wasn’t
canned stuff) and he should collect food so that he has something
to eat. This indicates that food must be found in the sector which
covers the earth and not in the heaven.

VERSE 22: needs no further explanation.

CHAPTER 7

VERSE 1: Noah and his entire hause go into the box. What do we
understand with house ? The seven other people including him, the
eighth ? or the sector that covers the earth. He, Noah would thus
be ruler of that sector of the Zodiac which we call Earth, It

Page 33

--- PAGE 197 of 260 ---

[OCR] would then include among the count alse the animals which he took
along.

"I have picked you at the present time as being just”. This
means: Just now, at the door of the Ark he is "just", Therefore,
the word just should mean to be at 9° 03' 184" Libra, provided our
door is the right door as deduced via the "ells",

VERSE 2: From the clean beast he is to take seven and seven, the
male and the female. Note this is not expressed in plural form,
because it possibly means that and that sector. From the unclean
beasts he is to take but one pair each, a male and a female.

VERSE 3: The same he is to do with the bird below the heaven, i.e.
those which are on the earth, to take seven and seven, the male and
the female. Nothing is said now about the worms. Either they have
no sex or something else brings it ahout that he eliminates them.
Anyhow, when adding them together, we get the following Table:

Men Clean beasts a Birds

26° 32' Le” nas 14° 52" 30.45" * 26° 47° 15,95"
29° 09' 28.35" 17° 29' 40.8" ° 29° 24' 26.3%
1° 46' 38.7" «7 20° 06' S1.a5" » 1" O1' 37.65"

4° 23' 49.05" * 22° 44' 01.4" 4 4° 38’ 48”
7° 00" 59,4"  & 25° 21' 11.75" « 7° 15" 58.35"
9° 38' 09.75" & 27° 58° 22.1" « 9° $3° 08.7"
12° 18' 20.1" & O° 35° 32.45" ¥s 12° 30' 18.05"
14° 52’ 30.45" w 3° 12' 42.38" » : 15° o7' 28.4"
5° 49' 83.157 4 17° 44° 38.75"
Unclean beasts 8° 27' 03.5" a 20° 21° 49.1"
21° 32’ 55,25" ¥S 11° 03° 13.85" 4 22° 58° 59.45"
24° LO' 05.6" # 13° 41° 24.2" * 25° 36' 09.8"
26° 47° 15.95" " 16° 18' 34,55" * 28° 23' 20.15"
18° 55' 44.9% »* O° 50° 30.5"
21° 32' 55.25" # 3° 27° 40.85"

To abtain these vales I took the size of the earth, 96° 55° 23" and
divided it by 37; Noah I left out because he is the ruler of them
all. One unit is then 2° 37’ 10.35" and the calculation is right
because all we miss is .15 at the end of a second.

Now, we know that one is a male, the next is a female and so
on in regular rotation. The first male is between 26° 32’ 18”
Scorpio until 29° 09° 28.35 Scorpio; the first female is between
29° 09" 28.35" Scorpio and runs until] 1° 46' 38.7" Sagittarius. I+t
all seems to boil down to finding the sex of the children which are
born in the earth and depending upon whether the male planet who
begets is in a male sector or ina female sector, or, if it is the
female planet which we must consider, then we have to look for the
female planet to be in one of these sectors and as stated
previously, it is most likely that we have to use 30° angles to
some other planet that brings this begetting about, and most likely
the planet Mars has his hand in it too. But we must not anticipats
too far, else we are apt to make wrong conclusions. To build upon
wrong conclusions may make our house fall asunder suddenly and w=
have to rebuild, going all over the field again.

VERSE 4: In seven days he is going to let it rain. Seven days are

Page 34

vs

ha aa a

Kt

--- PAGE 198 of 260 ---

[OCR] 11° 18' 27.69", So we know that Noah was at the door, at 9° 93!
184" Libra (which, by the way, I would rather have as 9° 13’ 183"
and possibly I made an error in the computation which kindly check
over when studying it), Adding to this place 11° 18' 27.59" we get
20° 21' 45.99" Libra. There the rain began.

VERSE 5: He is going to let it rain 40 days and 40 nights. The 40
days are above the earth and the 40 nights below the earth, i.e. in
it as far as I judge at this moment. As soon as I calculate it IT
may obtain different values that may not fit and we have to do a
little changing on it.

Page 35

--- PAGE 199 of 260 ---

[OCR] ifLuUSTRATIONS

Kies At
FOR LESSON 4

q THE HEAVE a,

DARKNESS

Srwe
EARTH

NIGHT o& DARKNESS

--- PAGE 200 of 260 ---

[OCR] LESSeN 2,

DAY, LIGHT,
JUPITER

—

~ NIGHT, DARKNESS,
tn SATURN =~

--- PAGE 201 of 260 ---

[OCR] GD

Tue BEASTS
oF THE EARTH

--- PAGE 202 of 260 ---

[OCR] QNIMy BHLY

REATION of
. THE PLANETS

sual 3

Pa
dRLAO NOLES?

NIIS

LESSON HRS

THe ONE SEAL
a Ey,

Sp pe

aetiane

--- PAGE 203 of 260 ---

[OCR] Illustrations for lesaon #6, pages 11 and 12

Fig #29 Fig #292

Fig-#30

--- PAGE 204 of 260 ---

[OCR] om. 15! 2
of
lesson #7
i
a pagss 13 4&4 14

--- PAGE 205 of 260 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 206 of 260 ---

[OCR] LESS an 10, Apespa2e

--- PAGE 207 of 260 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 208 of 260 ---

[OCR] [sae
[SWISS = np BP

THE HEAVEN

--- PAGE 209 of 260 ---

[OCR] memes |

‘Sa101S dUle yy 10 JUO WIAA UL
SIOUWABA-ffays aq O} aaogid pynoys
‘ayduuexa 40jy ‘atojys svxay auo
Ul pueWWOp Jeois ui sapoijaw Auetu
SY} SSexay JO asoyy ueYyy sais}
yualafjip saey Ajqeqoid auivyy jo
ayeys 9] Ul srouie.7 ‘ajerado Aat}]
YotyM ul APUAUGLUOD BY} JO SoYysIM
pue SPUR ULap 94} JO Bed ayeI
0] AEM B UL SuapesajOUA WoL, Way
aseyoind o] aavy puey sayzo 34}
UO Sspoo8 asay2 jo siapuan ayy

“Se0ys PuR say}old
Se YRS salpissadeu jO spuly iatyjo
Anq {[lM ays sasoils Jo sadAq sayj0
ul ‘Pesiq ‘avdns ‘syeour
se yons saijissadau jo
pury snoliea Anq Oo} 9104s ey
ay} 0} sao0d aa1Masnon 3H pe

YAAVE FDYOID
fig

SYqddVaL ALIGOWWOD
GNY XNDOLS
- of -

SIADONN AG1IO9

--- PAGE 210 of 260 ---

[OCR] O] swua—as Lae ay) Inq | stoneintu,,
WAY) [p22 S,1a7y sagury aouid asoul
ho 9InBy o1 suesau pue shew pry
OUM SPAVZIM PI]SIXd 2194} SAW], UD
-pjo ul Jad puy “aey os syuawacow
solid ajqeqoid ay} Jo uoloe1Ip 9y1
ut poysidiuosse useq sey A[}Uased
-de duryyou ‘puosas qyds ayy
0} 9UIZU2 INO JO paads ayr “yout yiU
ay} O}] aiejdury eB yo ssauyoiyT ay)
Jinsvall UBD IM SadUaIDS JayJO ut
3 CAN “ei Os ee SARL AMS
$J0O] Yas YIM passand Ajuo ‘aun
fo peaye paspnf aq jouuvs A[But
-WU99S SABURYID ay_L “SdIUIOUEIT pur
sme] JO Surpray ay. aapun auior
vuauiouayd yong ‘poied aus ayr
suLInp punod wv sjuaa g¢¢ oO. sua
SZ WOly anyea piejar ul poaFuvyd
BABY [IZZIG JO suvaq aayzjoo apy
asou | ‘A[SuUIpI9e.” paswaloul se
-[ea Asejauous sy ‘ad pue savad
pase sey i ivyi A[uo ‘paafoaut st
yeyi asnoy atues Alaa ayl su ‘ans
‘Tr6T Ul aNTeA SUL URYI aiour sau}

22.147 ‘QO0'¢ H1¥ Plos SPE] ul asnoy
aules styL ‘OOOS$ IF PlOs Zbhel

PEREZ ERRSIRRDEG

cA

Ul asnoy vo Iry) MoU am ‘saycdulexa
9}91DU0D OM] MOS O1 LapsE
‘S[VAIIIUL AUT] papUualxa ssayt
JO a40lWU Jalje saAyasway] asiaaal
PUL SPLEMUMOP BAOUI SIdY1O ‘sprem
-dn daouw awog ‘awn jo asinos
24) Ul San[eA UMO Jay] adUTYD san
~JZA JO S]1OS }]B Je UMOUY SI I]
‘sanjea aqviodioo Bury
-puey jo uolisanh 2 sit ases sty ut
Ajuo ‘aze19d0 sadunyoxg yoo1s em
auies AIBA 94} Ul] “UOTINGIIYsSIp-s1
feUOTPLU Jo9;Je O} 1aqJaso1 xUSNIIq
aie sivdnq pure ssa[jas a2ueisis
“se May ysnoryy ‘sat 1ofeu ut
Paqe30} 91e S]OyIBU ssay | “layse [Aj
aud Porter ‘QSUBYOXY ue jo ABM
Aq wey] Suijpes sramoid yanoryl
payquiasse Jsay Ajfensn aie “qa
‘saply MBI ‘UOIJOD MBI ‘suIvIs sv
yous sjonpoid Med jenjoe au ‘sua
“MOIS 19d 1L] 10 saHo1ey aoys ‘S| [Iu
Inojj 40 sasnoy s01y8ne{s ‘syptur
Biq WIOlZ JO saojoe} a81z] WOS}
uisq) Anq 02 3aey Osye ‘uoTNgtIsIp
Je207 10} spoo3 Hy) Anq sjueyoiaut
WOM WOIy ‘siayesajoyM ayy

--- PAGE 211 of 260 ---

[OCR] -qO $][Nsal ayy YIM Ajrpiqetjad
Juryoeyo ‘'|Ng [Sedat aud sinynj
ayy way) 7{9} prnoys Ady], “199q
ayy ‘If O} tasojd 9} ‘gnuasaid aye
-Ipawiuut ay} uodn paseq st 1o1voIp
-ur pasoddns yons Aiaaa pue yory
‘pya ‘suoijesodio9 Aq pred spuaptaip
ay} ‘A1jUNOD ay} JNoLsno1y] UoNesa
-do ut saovuiny Yseyq fo saquinu oy)
‘suotjezod.1oa Jo sjuauiazeys Sutusea
asn Ady} SyDOIS JO ase ay] Uy “sat
-IpPOUWUOD JO aS¥D UL ‘s[yefuled “S31
-sijeqs ‘sy1odaz yooyyno doi jo qsIs
-UOD YIM S1OJIVJ B]QISIA asn 0} AA}
SL9JSEIBIOF PUB SISTUIOUOII esNeI9q
‘sn 0} ayqrsueyaidimosur pue afqt
-siaur ysnf aie Ady) ‘WIPE ISNU aA,
AIOUE BY} ‘S]USLIAAOM YINS JO asned
ay} OF SB sjaisas ayy OU! eATep
aA, a1OUl sy “S#uly} YyIns moys
Pinoys JBYL Bev syUSLUNAISUL IaYI
pood moy uo BZurpuadap ‘ssaoons
sSaj 10 alow YyitA Saduey? aod ay}
JQ spual) una} Buoy, areonsousoid
0] UdAB aiEP aUIOS “uMOp JO dn
sayjaya ‘aq plnoys yO ad11d .1xX98U
ay YYM INoge suOoT]ONpad ayHeUt

FEEERERRGRBGRTE

Oo} iduwiaie pue Avp Oo) Avp weosy
SPTIPOULUED PUR SYyI0]S Jo atid
JO sjivyo doay Avy ‘aduvyod adud
jo ABA OY] UL IND30 Op suOT}I{ado1
UILII3D JeY} 9ZIUBOda1 sagueyd aiid
asayy jo satipnys jeieds ysnoiyl
oym eajdoed suos alive alayy
“‘S]a ‘SMO ‘SP1OMS 'SBALUY Poul
-ysey sulmiioqe ayy se Aem aus
AY) ‘S]UBUINIQSUT apnid YA pudosre
SSdul PUB Jey] 1e O8 YF aaKay Aa
‘sny [| “IdA0DSIP-d1 O] a[qe Uaeq sary
Sisqques ay] jo auou YDIyM suon
-eiado asoy] Ul paAjoaul aq Isnt
Jaidas slog “JeYyi smouy Jape.
peruatiadxaul ]SOUr ay1 ING aUuO Aue
‘QUOp UY ples faisea giv sBuiy]
YORG “OS 2194} pey Ady Udyar [pas
PUL LOY} O} MO] Ulsas sadtid ueYymM
Ang 0] }duayje Adu f ‘sa8ueyo aod
asoyy Aq 4tjoid 0} yduiajqze oym
ajdoad yo sad4q ulejqiad aie asoy
if Jo
AOUY O] SUIJURM UdAI JOU “YINi1
ay} wiloig ABM Aus Aydus ysnl Aay}
as[a 40 AnoYy ayy Aq s9quINp Mord
WIPO sy} 1ayyIT] “ysSO] uIaq BAvY

--- PAGE 212 of 260 ---

[OCR] Jo wo}
4 & goso
S[jal smal ayy 1VUR Petes Seu JdAdU
yw Ayuadsoid ysiy jo spowuad iy
“TOYO aq QO] 9Uu0 uotsinaid 9[Ge]Miu
-uit Aq MOj[OJ suoIssaidap pu Aq
-tadsoid Jo sajoA2 ay os ‘Butiis ev Xq
paiviedas Ajuo “iay1our YIM palseu
-UOD SE IUIz]es BUO aytpAsN[ °,,9uUIatL
-xd UP, [JED [eYS aw TRUM IO]
-D19Y] PUT} AA APIS JayIIA UC “RUIOd
uoljuivdsap ay] savy am WWOI10q yt
UO JIYA JUIOd UOl]eINIeS ay] aAvy
aM dol ug ‘uleSe [aaa]; MO] a] Ol
YOR puB [IAI] YSIY v Ol jaday MO] vB
UWOLj PEI] JY] Spudt] ajiuljap aavy
9M SWE JO spoliad 19A0 Jey puy
9M ‘'SJIYIVLU SILIPOUIWIOD Pue ¥201S
UL JO 918389 [BOI UL “BulsipueYyoiaw
Ul 10 S3tIISNpPUL UT YW aq ‘sayaAo HN
~LUOUOII BY] UL JOO] AAK ADADIOUL AA
"YORU CO] JuLd
-ajdde ay) Buijiasdn ynoyia uaas
Ajipuey aq urd 1eyM aes pure pyaty
BIq BY] OUI JaAo O8 sn 4a] MOK

SERSRERRSBSIS

épl[o aq Ol lsaloTul UMWO Sty OF Jou
Yost Ing ‘Nd aq C1 IURM 1,UOP OA
quatled siy Wing qf ‘ano 3nd aq
ysnw found SsIy yey) ApyuRay sjua
-1jed sty sqfol OYM 1O]D0P Y “AtiOM
OQ] dARY 1,UOP aM ATUO POA[OAUL $1
YINAT ay] Udy “ASAIMOH, ‘sTuspnis
Alay} puv SpUly SNOLIBA JO saduarDS
Jiny oO] uraas Avi woy] jo 9wos
‘ysnor lvyMawos aie Suripuvisiap
-un 1911aq 10) parnposUuT aq o1 pry
yl suosiivrdwos ayd jo awios
“Ysnd 3so1 ayy Jo aoint peas
al spieMO? spea] yeya ‘dn AEM ayy
pul} 01 Burd ‘sdais sit iovaiar oy
sey ing Uioy} & JO pua ay] spiemoy
JNO 9de1 [IA SatuT, UaljJO YsSNg aso1
ay} punolv squiys rey styde ayy
“HP eYL ésusoy1 inoytm JOU st asol
Teyas nq ‘staxyotis pue susoyy Jo jpny
‘piey st Avmw ay fp '[njasn pue ajqeas
-9P dO YON Suryiawos oF 13a0
nok peal 02 BulAll ‘ yfam-uray,,
eB qsnf aq pynoys yenuey joys
sIy} ub Bululeldxa we | Tey Ay
‘paiisap aq oO] yonw puy
em ‘suotNpap yons wos, pauley

--- PAGE 213 of 260 ---

[OCR] “B/| VE Yas SyIO}s JO young B Vay
Anq nok ayeut jsnu ‘pooyssepun
Ajtadoid ye ‘auoye yysnoyy sty
“SBl]IPOLUWIOD PUe SyDO]S 0} Bapt
aus ayy Addy jsperuuaizad ay} 0}
yleap sduriq Jey) aio} BuIALIp sy}
JOU ale plod 1O Jeay ‘A[Juanbasuo7
‘sazaai, daap Auv asne> you op pur
uoljeinp Joys JO aie Aad ‘siayy
4Ino20 Op sisO1} aseo uy “Burids
jvuia}a eAvy oO} pasoddns aie
am altaya ‘ELULOJIED Ul JsaA4 INO
sfetuuaiad asoyl YA ins30 ose
sylvap sso 1nq “Isa”,-piul 10 |s¥q
ay] ul suaddey 31 se Sjso1y jo yuNnod
~2B uO ATUO JOU S1Nd90 WWaIsds 1001
24] 02 yovq speluudasad jo syieap
yons ‘nod pull puy ‘punoissapun
St YY wWiazsdAs 3OO1 ay} JO daodKa
‘yuejd aj9/duios ayj Jo Yeap & aavy
am ‘sjeluuaiad yy ‘ing ‘doi mou
B AOIZ OF Zulpsas mau e Bursinb
-ai ‘Ajajajduio3 yno S3ilp pue s9ua
ynq smoid 43}} eB] oy] “xUe;d jenuue
UB WOL, JUBIIJJIP si yiyar (1aMO]])
que{d yetuuaiad @ ayty ysnf st yooqs
B 1eY) Bapt ay} [je 10; pure s0ue

ESRSZEER REE E RIES

BZIUTOIOE JSNUL AAV SDUIS ‘asvd 94
JOU SI Yons Ing “uryjou oO} ‘ys
ay? uvyl famo, od qs Ys yi
plespe |e aie aa Ua} ‘puey uo 10
ayqepreae Sr ysed jy “ysed Apvat jo
youl Aq |[@ JO Jsilj pasnvo st ‘atay)
ula} ANG jou op siqnd sayz ‘am
AYAL “AIAIMO]Y ‘B1OJaq SIvOA AU
JOU OOZ pur OO] usemjeq spvied
PIP OYM ssoy] ‘S1e]JOP VATF 1O INO}
‘Qa1y} Of [Jes saul] yons je ABU
qysiiq A12A SI | YOoTINO,, assy
sotuediuod iadie] JO Syoo}s pajenys
43}J9q ay] “ulay) JO spoupuny yng
‘OA JO BuO JOU ‘YIYSII BuO 104 []Os
SyDO]s USGA SLUT] B Ye St JP “yeu
IZIUSOIAL O] OB O} 1B2J JOU DARBY 9M
‘syDO}S JO SItEPOWLUIOD UL S3dtId Jo
B12 MO 3] SAOIDSIP O} IOp4i0 U]
dMOU 19933q
Aue am aig ‘uay] sjuatyeai} ysnol
AVys tur pey syuauy asay fp gppiom
P]O Sly WOsy JuaIayyrp Burypyauos
joadxa am ur MOP, ‘S]Ua} pue
splay Jo uloj ut Ajriadsosd yevas3
jo spoued jo pue sautumey Jo aunt
“WUT JOU alam Ady} SBI} asoy. UI

--- PAGE 214 of 260 ---

[OCR] It

‘saoq aIquING ay] UdAd ‘saaq
9Y} JOP1LJE O01 SiaMopJ 941 Jo Ino
HMOIY] aungiad ay1 ynoqe uleydxa
] Wey ‘UO Jayling pres aq qpIm sdoy
duIZIUso III NOQE IIOW “CGR 10
L061 49 [ZG] Ul se aes ay] ‘Yyove
yiyse suo 10} a8ueyoxd ay] uo
Palsi] Sy390]s BY] JJeY 1yY8noq savy
pinos nod zEeg] ul YOR Jey 29s pue
Alviql] auos oO} O8 ayes s AjIsolins
4of isn ‘aq [[IM raAau pue BuryyAue
YUM palsies Jaaau aie oym ssoy

SEEEEERNTIRR RES

ot

0} Buryevads jou we | ‘asinos JO Ait
ul a43ayt st ytyoad yontu moy ‘AI
0} dn AjuO uaad 40 paipuny suO
O] YyLysio BuO Wot] YyDOIS B Aliesd
ued nod gf “amos aq prnoys a19yy
ase) ul ‘AARIS BATXS BY AARY S.1dyIO
ays 19] pux uo ut Yse2 oj aae[d ayes
eB st payovoidde uaaa 10 payoeas
uayM “YOY VYSslay susal1xa ure}
-1a3 B SEY YDO1S Yowa ‘sny ZT ‘smous
AJIMO]] 1OJ [NJasn aly yaay ¢/| Zz
jo ssou lL “ISOUL IY? Je Jaaf OMI ueyy
Jaye? aq AsAau ffm sayod Joy pas y
“Saul May eB Ue] Ia[fed aq IJsA0U
HIM J3aJOIA YW ‘URUI UMOIa}NO ue
YUM atues ay ‘jayjz1 Aue 432 ou
-UBD AJOINS If IN [IM Buoy e 104
BATL UBD 391] UMOIBING UY ~Saary jo
spuly 19410 Jo suostiedtuoa sadoid
aye OM UaYyM ‘aya pul Ol pivy
001 Aue JOU 31e Sallipoluwos ul se
[]aa\ SB S>jD03s Ul SpaAsy] dol ayl “at
uoljeinjes 30 potiad au ‘mapy

“SHIM-J]TEY Yl JO , S¥la Mau, JO Bapt
941 PsvOSIpP IsNull am suvsur [je Ag
“UIZBY SJOAIT YINS Je SydOI1s By] aas
[JBYS 9M UdYM LUI] & aq [fIM alay yp

--- PAGE 215 of 260 ---

[OCR] el

“AdJO1g UIBIIAD v OF A}de[Ndad saw
IH] snjd sizyop puvsnoy) og st ‘Aep
49yiO 9} alu palsojul auoatuos
sv ‘sduluiwa A[ivad Sif :SMOT[OJ
sv ajdisunid ates ay] uo saved 10]
sajelado OYA Sia}UM 43}}9] 1O[1eLU
JO JSd19Aa][2 BY] JO aUO Jo A\OUY |
éJJ9s
-lWIY Yy}vop sinjewaid ev saIp pus
aqiq a} Jo tadta snoures yey) Ag
sunys sity Bulaq Jnou A yr spuly
OYA, dl SE YoY Jng cuoeayes
uo A[UO St aay) :Avs [je ABUL
“"*stayjoO jo Aquatd sive diay} ‘aoua
“49} FIP 94} SJBYA ‘aHVIA PUL Jd
~YeaM $]Vs JUNODIN dy Jy “HL jnoqv
mouy Ady] :Aes sigded Asvuawn
-0P 34}—}jOU 10 poo¥s Aue wy) op
A3BY] JaYIYA ‘Siesius pue siayseyd
‘stid pue saguazo] s]uatl 2104] aals
Aay} ABM JY} IO ABME SBUIY] 4}
Aayj AVm ay ‘Jad ‘]qissod se Buodim
se aq ued Asyy ‘sysa1 BuyiAiaaad
JO aivjjam ay} weymM uodn sauo
A(uo ayy aiam Aay] fl sv ivodde o}
AVPIGE BY] GARY OYM SiaLiM Le ]LUHS
‘IO SJ@1LIM 1a]]a] JaxIeUi paljeo-os

SEPSES PPE P EE SE!

ra

ay) Jo yonur Asad OU pulludt Ady]
“sjual]o silt sajpuey jeuoissajyoid
ve Aueui AVM oules AsVA BY} UY]
“SBULLUODTIOYS 139Y YO
40 a0UL1OUs ‘ssourLYysneYy Iray] 4o
d129 dye} O} afqisnerd spunos jeYyy
BuiyjAue ‘Ayyiqista 100d ‘uonnad
“LUO ‘HOYYTIIU 94] “dYIZIA 34] OF
SSBAjISLUdY} OF ING BuiyjAue Oj 41
aqiiose AgYy, ‘Army O8 SBUIG] Ud yar
‘Asop-AyunYy OF ButyJAIIAd opeul
JEU] SINS puv ssuasyfoyul siey) sear
}E yey] uorutdo ay] Jo ase Ady} AEM
M94] OF SBuI} UdsUAA Fey} ue}
SNOSUOLII WOW aq ppnos Burjory
“JOUTISUE UALD Listy ALOT
-]OJ 0] Apeas aq Osye Sntu Ajissadat
JO amen ‘iels 01 Apeai aie Aayi
se Buoy se iey) uotutido syy jo are
Aayp ‘1a ‘Buipes, 10 ‘uotssayord
B ‘ssauisng & 11 aq ‘BulyJewos uldeq
0] Ysnous poos si suy plo Aue jeu
vapr juajeaaid ay} Si ‘satyipoulwo0ds
1O $201 UL Stapesy yo ‘ajdoad ssau
-ISNY JO S1O119 JSaAeIZ ay] JO BUD

} Lavd

--- PAGE 216 of 260 ---

[OCR] ST

aie Aqpenb yous Joy arqia@uey Bury
-AUB YUAA Jou APojo1se (ia sou
SIIYAVLU YIM OP O1 Buypa isagysiys
ay] JOU. BALY adKpINS ayL UO YIYM
SIX9} JO Apnis yYsnoiy. pasayied
aq A[UO ued st a iYyA\ “Burssear
st juewiodu A13aa SUIYIaLUOS yey
Bopl 941 slad Ayenpysds ay ‘sporiad
[2 JO ABojoise uo sixal QQ 40
0S 2WOs Aj[njaivd paipnys sey auo
ua A, “paseq st BuryiAsaaa yoiyas
uodn ‘saseyd juvyiodur jsou ayd
PaTWio Ay[nfaied oy syaq quinp
JOU alam SluaIauUY asoU] yey) yUTYyT
UaAa lou Op Asay) ‘“IaAIMOT “Yonut
OS JI Inoge uayods aavy sjusiuy
ay] asneseq isnf{ asiom 10} 10 19}I9q
AO} VEIpOT ay? punoie uni sjauvid
AYEUL O1 SUleIG Jay, yYeaIg pu ABO
~JO11S¥ IOJ O38 Wayl jo Auey “wosyy
JUBA O] JOU 40 SUIBIS 10 S3p90]s JUEM
01 D11Gnd ay1 jo surerq ay] saaott
YEUI STL JeYAS O1 se seapt aizziq jo
S140s [[Z OJUI Aem Bug] ¥ sao AduRy
SUR] “SoAva] UOIPUapopoys 10 Aat
JO Yleaim & spvay itsyi uo ind Aayl
AjpyeIpawMWy “soue 10J 1YFu a Wy

SRSEZEERRD SIRI

¥I

HIM 18pei] Isequinp ayy uara uayAr
*SOLUI] ALU 9194] ‘BSINOD JO ‘aaIMALY
Jad Way] ayvul O] YBNoua avy sso19
isnf saotid soyvur ainjeny ‘Aqpensq
“ysiivaq jod Ady] ‘auUl_ B ONS MOT
-aq sdoip }1 $1 ‘Yysti[nq awooaq Avy
‘spaemdn sassoio aotid oy J] “stieys
JO saul; puaiy asm aulog “o19Uu71 pur
aia ‘stayjo ay} ynoqe BZuryyswos
MOYSs SM jay ‘sysiperoads asoy) jo
auo Isnf apndipl 2uomM aM ‘ang
‘oa ‘dn
avy Alaa ‘Alaa 08 [[LM pue dn de®
B OYRU [IAL lAYBLU 1AM O17 ans
SI oy ‘sapisaq ‘aurys uns & UaAa 10
UO a2¥} Sulysney v ind ‘ainioid ayi
SOYBUL AVABOYAL ‘MOTI3Z BY] PENOYS
‘JI punoie Alois & spting pue auf
“9p [JIA JayIVlu sy1 ‘sisAyeue ay
“ABUL INSU SIY Ul SatLIM ay ‘aR pip
~los & sMOYS dINIId dy] J] “STUasa4
-dai ainjoid ayt 1eym 29S 0] 19ded
“Smau at jo diijs Auunj urezsa9
B sqNsuod sy Udy] “sI9psO []Ty 07
JUSUINIISUI ue Aja1atU st OUM URW
SIBWIOISND ay] Jo syse ay g,OpP TIA
Jay1eU |Yy1 yUFYyy NOA Op TeYA,,

‘

--- PAGE 217 of 260 ---

[OCR] él

usym farqenjeA oaoid [fim pure
jBuluveut juatayyip eB aqinb aavy
‘So110]S SUdIP[JI sv palapisuod
Je} OS aAL LYM Pue [fe aye quunp
os j,useam dosay yx9a19 PfO a] IBY
azyeas O} sm sjad YyoyAr ysnoiyy
Parxiow aq URI Sa[quJ SNOLIvA 94}
pe Ae BY] UP BAO [TW Se “YUIYY
UdAd OF BdULYD B SAY Sieped] 9Y}
aiojag “(ysiy-Axys AjTusppns juom
sooud) dn suryjAroad uajea sey
ay ‘Oo dn st JOM yey] Jey azipeos
ADU} BOJag "UOIIWVAL B OJ Sad1ZjO
$1ayoig aq} ul Buijieay puke Burs
aie oym ‘asudins Aq ssapeiy 3f3i!]
olf} [JE Saye] JER ‘suieiB IO SyYOOIS
ur aaouldn Buois Biq e se uoy
-onpoid uMO INO UL UMOYS 9g PFNOM
‘y4om = Alysneu saulos saop Jjom
Siq years oy] Uayas Se Yyons ‘SUOT}OR
pajioxa ayy yo awiog -raded jieyo
uo sjustaAol adtid sayy yord am
usyar sonpoid surei3 Jo syoo01s ABM
ayi isnt jseyo e Ul saul] JO S]uaUl
-9AOU OJUL AJOJS BY] UL BUOP pue
ples Si Jey} BuryyAisaa ssaidxa puz
asn 0} UdI}EUIBeUIt JO JO] B 4nd oO}

PERGRER DS R23333

a1

AARY aA “SAUOIS [VULLUR ale ABY] A]
pens) “AULE Of Vy] JO IO UdOsay jo
sapqe-] ay jo Aue aye] SN yay ‘atvaps
UONeNYIS ay urepdxa OQ] 1apsio uy]
meteele)
BUOIM Ij ]OU ale aa ‘SjlAap sajqey
IO sajqe) [[B2 am J] vanity at sae
AlaA,, [[BD IsnNur am sayey Asey
isarquy [jv ismul am sajqeej
rssaqarl dunyiys Aq
UBsU | JEYAM MOYS Puke eACdE spidar
OAL] 842 ayx¥L AsNf aay “BurpiAuy Bur
-svdaloj jo Aea\ ayi ul paystdiuod
~OU aq Uvd JaAsEYyAr BuLYOU YoY
YNOYWA ‘Sp1OM UL BUMfLYS-19]13]
jo yeods | adejd sayjo auios yy
‘sABAA Yons OF O} 2UKAL 10U OP
Ad] [Ye we syqnd ayy Aq uappo
you st yey. Yyyed wv 0} suo peal A[
-[eNpead ]JIM ‘sorio]s asoy] Ul paurey
-UOd ss0URULIOjIed snolieA 3u} []e
yno BulMoljoy pur ‘Apnis daap jo
sieoX ATUO pux ‘Inoqe [pe st iL TeYyA\
JO SBUIfIdJ SBuviis ‘svapi auo saaIs
syooqg yons jo Apnys ayy “sysOM
pajejei pue ‘soe yp Alley ‘sojqeg
‘SHIOA BSO1 4 aduRI}S “A41190,{ PO

--- PAGE 218 of 260 ---

[OCR] 61

pure ‘¢ qe Ajsois,, sauiosaq uo
“ENS 3] IVY OS ‘p ppe uaul ‘sploq
Jt su} auues ay1 qe pue Aoids
S]OU UL Jl :JO vapt ay. surequos JL
‘sny_L *,,Aotds,, SuBdUL Yor, SuOLTS
‘SUOIIS 10, BIZIANAN PLO JY] UO U
“IBEW DLUOS YIM Juasaidal prnoa
OFS Lp :3]duexs tsyjOur ayel sn jar]
“DIY MAUB BUIIIOS TNOUIIM ‘ALIATIIV
yeoid :MOUy [JB OM ‘SULLD] LO.ABLU
Ur floq,, SB puUeISstapuN 3M eA,
ce APIS HIS, 242 ay. AI] Y dt0W
€ Jadxa ‘aiayy spioq j1 paptaoid
‘UBD aA Ua) ‘Ze 2e S]fes yDoIs e Bul
-soddng ‘snuy) suvatw @issiaip pun
uaqaig ,,,A11,, 01 Ysl]suq imo oqui
Jralp,, Jo SuluBel ay] aBurys am pa
-plaoid ‘uoinjos ay} aary am sny yp
« [HOG O1,, SUYOUL UBULIAT) UT YDIAs
UIPIs,, OUI JI UIN] pux _waqars
Plom 942 UL Bs ew ayeu ysnul
os[e am ‘ed yeulj Ino ye aAue OF
Jap41o Ul 'MON] “BISs1aIp Pun uaqals
:se uononpsp ay] ayew plnom
aM “LE 1¥ S]jas YOY yools B 104
[JPA JOU aT “YDaIs sem 1 ueLu
a) plo Ul *,NoIs,, adensury paia

EEE ZREDRS DERE ES

aT

-AQD OY} UI Surat | 81zZ,, Surpua sty}
J9139S BU} SAWIOD MOAI '339 ‘“BIZISIA
‘BISSIOIp “AIZUvAAZ SNY LE *,,51Z,, aeut
-1ac) Ul Wea ‘A-]114] ‘A-]UaM)] SP
A- se aounouoid shemye am you
“319 “O04 ‘Ob ‘O€ ‘OZ SB Yons ‘situn
us} 943 JO sdulpua ay. ivy mouy
Jsnus aa ‘afduizxe Jo. ‘uaddey 0}
SUIOT SI JLYA OF OND au} SdAIT 1eU}
uoljemunouoid Jystt dy} A[]sOlu St
WI ‘NOA PUL “‘psounouoid aie Aauyy
ABM ay] OO! O1 | WoL} staquinu oud
Uuvay OSfe pUue IPUWILUBIZ UBLUTAD v
393 02 NOA IO, ASed Ajaatwieduos
aq plnoys Jy -spiom ysisuq
jou puke Sunviado uaym aBenBury]
ULULIBD sy1 asn am Jey] Asessavau st
H ‘Ing “A[Surpsos.2" suaqjay Buryrys
pue siaquinu suisn Aq Surpesy Sums
Moys ]NOQe SJaidas auIOS aie a1ayy
‘pajoadxa you aie Ajpeuiou
Ystya. sBuryl op sxemye ages ay
UI S$10]ZB ay sayeU YauM AeA B
ul ang ‘AemM [Aa ue ul poolsiapun
aq 0} JOU auay St JIAap aueu ayy
jSlaxaetu OF paid
-de pue saul] jo wo} ul yno pajjojd

--- PAGE 219 of 260 ---

[OCR] 1%

‘

e2¢ Cit) dle, (.,20tu,, are dayjyad
0} O197 at} pue aud alt ASN IAG
UsOt[As ,, St ud} jo auluraul ay
“CZE) fpeomz pue (]]) usaays
“uaz ISB UvULIIG ur SptIoMm Jerpads
AAR E] Pur 6 UsaMyaq slaqctuned
ay] ‘sdoys yim ajeiado ‘sapisaq
‘pue ‘yontus 001 joedxa 10 ysIddoy
yod JOU OP am paplaotd “‘apeur aq
ued aped] & Auryy “YsIYy OS JOU ale
SUOISSILUWIOD atayAr ‘Suieid ul Bul
-pelj uaym A[jetoadsa ‘adeq ay] ]¥ aq
0] satinbar Aem jeyy Bunviado
‘psueddey
yeyM 3as pue ape A]}994109 uaag
DARBY YIM $J1BVYD P[O Jo AeA Aq SI
saouRLUIOfiad ay} UO yYd9YD 0} ABM
AsBa UY “OO[ O} [ JO VSO} “3°! 910}
~aq SI9QUINU dy] Ul Usaq pey se 3294
~jo ayisoddo ayy ysnf azinba1r pynom
OO] eAoqe sraqumu qe ‘Ayzuanb
-3SuUOT) “MOU PUNOL ABM ABYIO 3U}
OZ :suvaw YY siopue,, Jo eops
ay} sey patpuny pue “uMop puaq
‘OT “YIP slau,, JO Bapl ay] sey 06
pue ,.jNO Yys}eM,, JO vapt ay1 seu Og
apIYM , BABYS, JO BAPl oY} S]Uasaidal

‘

FERRE ER EGRESS ERS

0%

Jes Aquaaag “dn saiyyany syurod
aaiyy ‘OZ O1 148 unt pur (acrty)
(Au, & ayeu o} anp st (ez) wy
asnesaq ‘gf ae pasnmbai aq pynom
doys ¥% ‘sny) O] SAaYBUL |. papta
-old z/ 1@ Sdo] ajqnop Joadxa ysnul
aM B1OJaiayy (,{Sla]]UE,, a1e Yd
LYlamag,, Plas UBLULOD 94] 01 Sale|
-a1 (1aMZ 10 OMZ) OM}, PlOAN BY]

‘ulede des
3} ASOjD ‘at [UMOP JIS 0} Apeal st
‘ddd SUI Sjuasaidal yoryas [QO 18A0 dn
ded e uayy pure ‘A]XxIs Saye yum
yoos ev ‘asOjosayy “Jloszt Burjjos
eB usyy pue (dn des e) ssa ue Buy
-Jas B IO} {[BD pynom [9 ‘sayy + Sun
-]9S,, ABS B UJI BULMES JO vapl au}
suizjUOD (IQ ‘puod ay} YSnory} sites
Ajpnoid OYA uBAS,, B JO vapL ay}
SUIZ}UOD | AWUBAA,, Pyaar ay? ‘CJpas
“11 Burpuim) Aju Jo vapl ayy (Qg)
Bizuanj prow ayy ‘ATpeqmeuroyne
Jaysiy joadxa O} savy am Udy) ‘fp
yB ]lOq you svop yt yi ao dn smoys
aaoul Aaids ou asea uy ,,uMOp
al{ O},, SUBaU YIIYM _Uasal Yrs,
BUIUBSU UKUIATD ay) sey ATHIIS

--- PAGE 220 of 260 ---

[OCR] 2

purisiapun Tura isnf ueuuas
“You BF JBYE OS ‘S]>2a[VIpP JO suazop
ale atayt ( e(PAquIN, ayy aq oO] pasn
Jasaym 10 rsdoid Auruttacy ut
-YUAs 2VY1 19ey ay] jo atids ur ‘asaya
WO1J 9UIOD BALY O} LUVas soften sur
uvedoing ayisnyy ‘snonijiadnas $11
Yury] AVYI asnvsaq Burppim si yuan
-ed ayl gt Sury Aue ino ino $1010]
“BI[AIqLUN OU AALY [[eYsS aar ‘1reay
B ynoYyUA punoiw uns adoinzy 1a]
oO} Aly am Jy ‘adoing jo yivay ayy
——ULEYIS VY] Ispun punoie papsay
aq 0} tusas adoingy Jo satqeq sayqio
aur YR Wey. vas aM usyy (Au-etu
Jad - dur $e Y} “WuALyos ay}) ‘Aue
-IaQ) 1aA0 papuedxa aq UWuIYyds,,
au} LAT “e[atquin ue suvaw
ysysuq poo ur ysiyM .wuyas,,
PIOM URLLLIAaT) aya YAM uollD38U
-u0d © SBYY POA SI “fpasit ew
“lay, PIOM 9Y1 Wool] Ayises sayy
peutejdxa aq ues uo saaqunu ino
png 0] aseq ve se oden8uyy ueut
~JaQ ayi asn oF aaey asnf am AU AL
“ATQISLA are Aayy Aqaiaya
‘IQAO-SHUISSOID 941 UL Sap “Col

SEES EPER ESR ER] a

ee

S19Y}O aYT aas [[eYs NEA puv Ajasol>
yoo, ‘Ieaamojyy dn o8 pynoys Aayy
Udy ‘SE TBYT “UIpBay ynoqe sulyjou
pue (diz-) ssauydis moys Ajue siaq
-WUNU 94] 89110U AVE NOA JO AWS
‘speusis Aunur nod aard yjim
soueliadxa pue ‘uostueduioa ‘asua
-ed jnq ‘puvisiapun of apnoiyytp
AJyyStul st UdATH UOreueldxa ay.
‘Of Jos [feo
pNoM EF OUI Puros ay (js/ey
Ul 429} - Jawdy 41891) 9g 0] uolIsea1
Bw IO} [[B2 pynom ¢T-Z] uly dois
¥ ‘a10ll aDUO ZI] O1 Moeq Buleg
“UTaL9y1 ssau
Is aadxa UBD aM a1OJaq GE 0] 08
plsoys ¢¢ Buissoid ydo01s v ‘spiom
JayiO Ul Sys JaB pM li wo. pur
Bd1Y} 1ayOUuK pu s31Y4] Suva ‘Bis
-SI24p PUN [aap :S1 YotyM ¢¢ ‘MON
‘OL (FL Yia9} 32141 [BUOTIPpE
ue 40g s][e2 (uyaz-191p) ¢f o1 Bul
-08 ‘sny yeede sBuryi away yoru
‘SOA [OAN Yt AT JPOA\ aIp,, se youd
~AaqUL fF “(ZT ) ..j(omz,, pur Pp ay
am paplaoid sou 10} [feo “a ‘soue
~ISISSE JO} [[@9 :suv|aU! YoIYM , jay,

--- PAGE 221 of 260 ---

[OCR] 14

-apis d1q YW “UvIAO[ ST JayxAvU []NQ ev
‘UBILUN} eS SL Jaylew ivaq y “SBuryy
JayWO puR sydIo}S ‘SuIBIT Ul OS{L
ynq ‘suosiod ul A[UO yOu sadAj asay}
puly om ‘MONE ‘ABM aBules 34) S19
~Y]O dy] azAjeuy ‘sedA}y [BAe yy ay)
0} duojaq ysnur uolssajyoid Aq 3131p
jos & SEOYUM auodue “URLULINZES ¥SL
Ajains ssauisnq Suryoaim ayy ur st
yeu) ApoqAuy ‘suBls[os ose ‘s1OIp]
‘SOUFUIT] UaAad ALIOS ‘SUBLINIIay,
JO SUBISNUSA SLOYIO ‘S{RIIBY) Sie
-Y10 ‘SUBIUINIES []29 am sluOs ‘ICG
ajdoad jo sadA} s9yIO Aue 91¥
aday | ‘SUOISUBL LO Saf}seo UT UIOg
Apeal[e st aaof ev yng “Yiom piey
jo sleaA AUBUL 1a]ye paimmbov A[uo
SI adpa[Mouy “SsuIYy] YONs 10 azpa
~Jmouy Jo ajid ve Aq pasned Jou si UL
ans ag “WaY} UJIA fyaA JNO Suny
BuUlpJAlaAa pues BurylAuy ‘ssof sul
-Yyqou ‘yINoU! 1tay} UL UOEdS JaAIIS &
UA UIOg Udeq sARY AB] °S38ao.[,,
[eo Avul om Yyotya, spoted ye
u1o0g a[doad aq [JIM SABM[E 3419U_[

‘adoing pa[jeo ‘Apoq ay} Jo ysar oUy
UO SiapjINg-Ysa]j SB pasn puke Jivay

BEEBSHER ESE ER TES

2

dy] ioty Uae}, “Waaq savy syuny
snouraA “ulede adoing xi Atl om
uaya adoiny jo jreoy ieys inoqe
yup] O2 yonu sn aatd pyroys 1ey
“nO apIsUuL pauiny usyy ysnf sem
JY} Byfaiquim yey) apisur JyPnoy
uuaaq sAvm[e aaey Sivm ua} JO 30
auIU JV] puly SABM]L dM ‘AIO]SEY UT
youd O8 oar Uatar ‘VITO JOO “B[fo1q
-win jey} Yyjesusapun ajdoad 3t;}
Jou ‘JSOWW Bu} S1d4Ns Jeu] BYjasquun
ayy sAeMIE Sti py] ‘MOUy | DDeOd
JO peaysut 12M []2> 0} saey ppnow
3a SSUNP] YONS ‘sn sAoqe yYLies
ue yng _{UsABIY,, BOW OU BABY
[[eys om usy | Gusy} JEYAA [NO opis
-UL B]faiquin poos sy] SuUin} PUIM
ay} ey} ayqisscd usaad stip “yous
B[JIIGUUN BY} 0} Pouajse}] A]UO Bur
-3q ‘SpurM olf] O] JOafqns ‘Apqqoms
A9YPBI SI ULILGISG Pood ayy ‘daoqe
_ UUIYIS,, 341 ING MOJIq SI ase2 BY}
ul UB [Y4zlea puke UdABdY ‘sopIs
OM] BY} MOYS ]Y V19YM ‘UO JaYyIINY
UMOYS OS]TR Si BIP!l e{faiquun Siu {
“BJAIGuiN ULeU ayy yO Jaed aie Ady]
‘Jah PUB BSIBA BSIA PUY SiayjO at}

--- PAGE 222 of 260 ---

[OCR] “3

APISUL ay) PuL jluN auO se su
episino ayy Aurdaay ‘sac y Ip
Ajasua Suiyawos st yeypyp pEusayur
pue [rusaixa payye2 are yeu syed
aso] YMA Op O1 Buryou sey jiaa
pue poos eyi eivis [aa se iyAiu
am ‘Jey) 18 ale am ajiuAy ‘suoroe
Atay] pue syed ayqistaur ayi Aye
-adsa paipnys OM $10190P se [Jam Se
suoadins aavy Avy} AYM SLU Y ‘AP]
-IUUSSIP YONW AIBA 318 SPUTY OAT
9Y} 18Y} MOU OST IAA “SUOTL.IO2Aap
apis]no aie ‘sasuas aATJ ANO ayvIe
-do yorya Ysnosyy sdoquisul ayy sev
yons ‘sited opisyno aq} ayia ‘uado
ynd st Apog ay}. ssoyun ‘a]qIstAut
‘Apoq Ino JO suolye109ap apisul are
JIAT] PUB SUIDL ‘JIBOY ayy ‘s#un] ayy
yey] sMouy Apoqdlsag ‘(episut) ut
SI JPA BY] :suBaltl it ‘NOA IO] atay
JQAOOUN J YOIYM asensuyy pasaaoo.
ay} Ul “Wepy wos] BurUOd urs [ele]
ay} ul 1ysnos aq O} ST Ut Jo asned
ay e4ay} 91e aM Jey] BzITear UDAI
3A BIOjag aJoY B UI sjUuTOd ual seAtas
-ANO Pl} PUB JUTE ay] si AYs yulyI
aA “dn s308 11 oOJUOId ‘pue doip

SEEZEEVRS DERE F,

92

JEM YOYAVLU JY] Ji se aay aay ‘vON]
-edtfisse[2 Alvuipio uv Oo} Arvatuoes
UNI O} Ludas ‘ADURIOUTE JO WAY] Out
peduind usoq sey a9u919s Yanut Moy
‘MOP] MOY JO YSIY MOY PUILL 1aA0u
‘gjdoad Jo syydnoy1 ayy “Apuado
OS 42} JOU SsOpP JINTeN 99uls ‘sdeus
oqur unt Ayyoinb om ‘s}soyus ayy
jo 10 ajdoad jo sadd] ay} Ajtsseo
01 AT] am JAsUaY AA “PaAT-11oys
ae SBAI[ 11st} yEY] ‘MOUY OS;U 3M
‘pUue SlUBIS Ose ‘salIpe] yey ‘syiemp
‘SYEOI] SEY SNIID ay ayy zB
UL aIUC “UL paxy we puedaq 1aaau
ale (9S¥D SIy] UL SJayIeUT) sjysoys
a4] fO sjUsUIBAOUI 3ay] os ‘yay
Z puodeq puaixa lou saop guraq
UEWINY & JO aZIs ay] a2UIS “(spaeM
-umop) peq aie Aay) spoied 49
-410 1 “poosd aie suorse yons sawn
Vy ‘UOl}ION Ul AjlUBISUOD ale sjay
“ley ‘1soys & se Ajuo sn 0} readde
Aew if ysnoyi uars ‘Bureq Fuay
® ‘(umop pue dn saaous) saat let
SUIyIAUB [Je 0} punog amr am alo}
~al3ay | '9J9 ‘UeIsnua, pal]eo aq Aeur
sde3 Jo Jo] & yaIM JUaLaAOU astm

--- PAGE 223 of 260 ---

[OCR] 6e

-junba SN aA g4dAaJ P[Od B sjadaq
aprys YONuUl OO} puv ayO1}s B Soars
‘uns yonut 007 ‘Ayyeoipotsed jeyy
MoU NOA OG ‘purly AUB JO sad¥I UL
UIA JOU [[{M GUO YEY] “4AOS J9A9 PEYyM
JO spinbi] Jo $}O] stunsuos ues OY
due axl] Isnf j1arp Jo adueys v jad
-x9 ‘sxea]s sdiq A]UO 10 sajqyadaa
AjuO MOAB S]IBYD 34] UO s}soys ino
uaya ‘snyp “ysjem :Apureyd sAvs
Nu! INO UO A[UO SHea}S BiG 10} 10
‘A[UO S3[QRJABIA JO] a4isop Y AYsty
$I BUIJOULOS Jey] PurusVM zB saynq
-1]su09 AFUBUIPIO Op jou P[NoOmM suo
yy SBULY] Op O] Aduvy Juajsissad
2 JO (s}sy4eul ul AVAIDBUL) ‘daays
1OJ disap pasuojosd e 10 |pads~-Azzip
uappns B Ing jsysoys Ul aes ‘4Iey
-je Buissed & S31 ‘ABM 1YBLi paq
0} sn jnd y,uomM adurd ev io ‘u109 &
‘ayse reo uy ‘asinos jd ‘Ajac1u Ajaa
SAAOUL 1e3aq pue [NG BIq ay} vas
‘Sn aye {IM Buatuoustd pauonuaul
aaoqe ay} jo Apnys [Njoaiey “19)
~jaq Aux jou avy Aay] “s}soys 1no
Op OS "peq Ul yOVq Jlayy UO 3eq) Al]
Aa} 1 Jo eMmeE ATM] ale am alojaq

PPGRERRSD ROOT G

go

PE pully} & “TALpJOUL Sjadaq Ayeusn
puny auos yo uontisodstpur uv wy
paztusora1 aq Jovy ay) [PIM (siuauU
-saow [[Mq Buoy jajfe) way? uo
dn sdaei3 ase vaya ‘UO taqle7] “(1ay
“IEW 1vaq eB WOOL} BuIdIata) | u10g
-a1,, aad aAey Aayl Jaije sureid pue
SYOOJS UBD OG “Sass32KI BLUOIIBAO
Ajisea ued Ayyensn afdoad guno,
‘SN 10} JOS PIU] B St a19Yy} sIotpM
~dLUOS BU} 9zZIusoOIe1 ABa-jyey Ady}
Op ‘jse} OO] suruunis wo1y ‘Apdaep
CO} APT B BUL[ULIP UlOI] “Buoy 00}
dh 3ulsq wois dydepeay B 10 ‘yINIy
adiuiun Suljvo WIOLs YORIZE [RUTSajUL
JUBIS V Se ‘sstuIe $398 Suryyouros
3494} 10 diay UayA ‘A]UQ “JuNODIe
tlayy BurIpnypout ‘yypeay poos ur skem
-[@ duiyyAtaaa aas ‘[plu ayy ysnoiy)
aos aael] 1aAau OUM ‘Slapely Mau
Ajjuanbasuo7) “Apoq ay} wistoy yey
Slaqwdaiul SNOLIVA IMO JO YU) UdAI
JOU OP am ‘AUjjeay aie am se Bud;
SB WY} MOLD 9M. ‘PULY tayo ayy
UO ‘asdE]]oo ‘a “1 ‘DIS eLIODAaq UED
s}tun ons yous jo sued rey mouy
uOOS aA\ “]}IUN JaYJOUR se SLaquIU

--- PAGE 224 of 260 ---

[OCR] ‘Vadivy ay ssw
Ady] satuljawos ysnoyl ‘Aysnoasey
-UBAPE Ud]JO [JIM datp IIYT asn
Ady] “‘Buryjpas pue sutAnq flay, ul
WO] 08 Ady] se ‘woayl jo _daaod
1UM,, 942 Aq pasnes ‘apeu-ueur
aie AY] aus ‘Ajieapo sas ued MoU
aM Sasvasip O} JIafqns aie s|soys
yeu ‘Aypenjusaa ‘vuoTPeuUTsap sty
Je SdAllie ay atojaq ‘02 yalqns st
LY) LeU] Sasvasip jo spaipuny ay
jo Auv jo zgyjeu ‘Asdoip jo iou v1
-8epod jo Suryjou mouy Aay | ‘aso0us
Jada A[SNONULUOD 3s [JIM LUNODIe
BULpel] 194 PUB SIa[[aAL11 MOT]I4
Alay JO qed oy] oF ualsly Jo duly
puell & MELp St ‘Op O1 paau Aayl [fe
yury1 oya ajdoad ay1 yo aos ae
aioyl ‘IeA jajdoed ay2 jo purw ayl
WOif Padclual Ivy MOY pue pees
-tyduiod MOY {pM yIp pure piry
MOY | YO "IN ‘SSI BJOYAA 9YT 0] UO
-Njos v ST d4194} JOA Puy FYIYA st
YOIyA isny_E ‘ported owl) sures aut
ye [ye “BuLyAOU OP s19ay}O Ulese puR
‘QSTL SIDYIO IIA OUL[IOP BWOsS IduUTS
‘Jayjoq Auv 21e} JOU OP 9A\ S3tJIPOLU

SEEEBEEBESRERIPS

0€

“OD YAY “ABOTOOZ ul YAY Ja
O18 SIGNOI] atuvs ayy 219 ‘dy eB jo
UOJ 941 FARY S19yIO ‘a: qesiauuNuUL
SI9YIO 'SPALI|] JIMO]J XIS AALY BIOS
“paw1oj siomoyy Jo add] ay. wos
sjuvjd ano ajduiexa 10} Ajisszj> 07
Al} aw uayAr AZZIP sn soyeu ]]
jaov
Asoi & Ajjensn sey sodvis isv] ay} ul
quaned agpnoisgni y ‘sajsuy soq
ul yYS11 Avp [je SO} $31 YM AsPy uvs
Ssulusou AB80} vy “UOOUIAIJe~prus
Aq UHOIsiapunyy oyI1I9a) eB Bui
ued Aep satus pYysUq Be asnes
aq ‘sioledipul lou aie syooj,, 1zUui
AOU [JB 2A [Ad Aay) are vay pue
Pood satys ay1 vie uaYyA ‘st MOUY oO}
gad ayi tof Aynoiyjip Apuo ay |
‘ules Aue O1UL ABAQU PUL sso] B OUT
UIN} [JIM ‘JIAa are sudAvOY ay} UaUA
uaxBUapunN ‘sisoys ino Jo auo Aq 10
uel fo foylaym ,{uonoe Auy
“MEL IUeLiodtut Alaa v
S¥ 9194 puy ‘sjurod Aueur ay? saard
dn yiysia ue pue ve11 yeo ue saad
paas & se yous ‘sauo Siq yio} SuLiq.
SHuyy [pews APUO ywey1 azipear Ay

--- PAGE 225 of 260 ---

[OCR] ce

“MOYS SI] ButuuNs st taMod uRUINY
40 AQUOLU Ue] 1ousdns Bury auios
yeu} adtou [lM Avy] Uday) “NO saAi3
AQUOLW A1ZY} 10 BULyOo, aq },uoM
Aayy Aep aziu auo “Ing “dn ue saonp
-oid pue jjasz1 Aq [je sadueyo Ayjeot
-JPUIOJNE Pal} 3Y} USE T “asanod sj}i
uni Ajjeustou sey aulj2ap yo poriad
a4] [fun ‘ao1oy aaays Aq adiid uiey
-1a0 & spjoydn yoy ‘ulaszay] puey
S}L oAey ABLU ADINOS UBLINY aLUOS
dATJOJ © JOU JEU] Si ‘YYUSU st yeya
puv ure;dxa | Jeym Jo pury uo yng
‘sulo}Joq IsysIy aAissazons A\OYs
spotiad ay} 19A0 YOTYM dul] Puat}
DISEq,, Pa[feo-os Be Aled YOIyM

Spoliod J98U0] BULLIAOD SJIBYD awos’

das 10 JO Teay A[TBUOISeDDI0 aA\

MEEIEEDEEIIE

ae

“UOT IHAZSAP JO JUNGLUB PENYUIAa ayy)
Up AYE} ISM UONIN.AYSUaD ayy JO
WUNOLUL at) ‘sysQyd ano jo Bupjeads
yey] OG “ayes yeursuo sit oul
yoeq je} OF auoid si sAemye uciyesa
-Ua8 Pty] JO Puaras ayy yng ‘wayy
yim ayqissod tayjo aw spuaaaoid
“UN EY] MOLY [fA NOA ‘sjux{d 10
S1emo|} INOqE Buiylaulos mouy Nod
Ji ‘asinoo yO ‘sduryy yons Aue sou
ysl B JO yn WwOS vB ayYVUI 4,UeD BUG
‘SUIQey UT SB [Jam se syooy ut ‘Ay
-jiqedys io AauOlu ul ‘(natyziiw) spi
J13y} JO INO saajasuiayy OM 97
ajqe aie ajdoad may Aisa AY asnvo
ay) si siyy ‘yenba asja Bury iAiaaa
Vyas ssend 0} aoueyd Adstj-Aljy
e AJUO dAEY 9A TY] ‘}t [peo ABU
am JaAa1eEYyM 10 ,AOI]Sap pu sonp
-Oid, (Jas pue 1eBs, 94) Yay st ley}
“yey 104 Vy, “284, pue siyj, ayy
ya ‘punole [fe Ost) Yalm [Rap 0}
BABY BAX BDUIS ‘SNOIAGO JOU HI S]
401]9DAL,, D Bu1qvadxa OF
a[qoivduoa ‘ Butyjas 140gGS, 01k ivsy
-u09 $1 goigm ‘ suidnqg duoj, uparw
[ SUipdd 40 SYD0ZS Ut UO1];90 AG x

--- PAGE 226 of 260 ---

[OCR] sé

Ajuo aay ajdood jo add} satpiouy
“‘pavay 9q 07 dsloU Ysnou sayeL
JO sasou 119y) JO JUOL, Ul WB
sumt yey ey. ydaoxa duryjou
Jvay puke vas oyad ‘Suippou fo yun?
14} ‘punole spit ‘punose uns way
gas am se ajdoad jo addy adviaae
ay] way} [22 sn jay “quasaid ay ul

Ajuo aay ajdoad jo sadd} urea
ISMO[[OZ Se
uolyeonpa Aq ue 1YysNoIg a1aM sadA]
yons Avs OF ]URM OM Ssajun ‘yons
Se WiOq alam oym ajdoad jo sadAt
JB41aAas }SIX9 pIp SAME PUR ‘s}sIxa
a419y] 1eY] [[e JO isaly azipwar ysnus
am ‘Aem sgenb sayin ev ut sqoaf

-qns ay1 Yyovoidde of sapi0 uy
‘Je ‘say.O[D uO szapr diay. jnoqe
JapuomM UdAd am ‘Aleninys pue ‘sBur
-juled aay. inoqe ‘sBuntim 1uat
~UB 9} JO WOPsIM ayl Inoge Lapuom
aA, “W841 SUIT[D] InoyUM sjuan
-ed 1194] paind ssolsop snowy ay
MOY ‘SaAp puke S1O[OD Burjsef-1aaa
asoy] apeut Aay. Mofpy ‘sajdutay
JUSIJIUDeUL asoyI pyIng 07 ‘sprus
-e1Ad ay} uo sauois isou-do} ayy

GEEZEER RRR ES DS

ve

A¥] O1 SIDUINT-PlO asOYI 1OJ alqissod
sem It MOY yUTYI tuOpyas Asana aqoya
sty] JO siuryiqeyur Avp juasaid
am ‘asinoo yO ‘alnadde sau Ajsues
0} SIUGg 1Edq 40 S9UOq S,J}OM aUIOS
pamayo pux saavo ur panty Aayd ley]
‘UOOW ay] pulyaq u1og alam ajdoad
saul] asOy] ul Jey. aurseun Aew
aA ‘ole ‘solpel ‘sone ‘suri ino
-YUNM PaIsSIxd BABY UaAa Pyno7 sade
auos-aAq jo afdoad asoyl 10 sjuars
-UY asOy] MOU ‘Sso] B18 d1e aM ‘DAA
“MOF “WON eB durysnd Ayduis isnt
priya e Aq pajersdo pue pajpury
aq Ue QUEY DBL SIq B AUeUI EU] OS
‘suleiq UdAIB-pog ay] yy Ajarayd
-W0d sasuadsip yorum Azure

jo Ayuajd Juasaid je ssassod aay
“UOJ 19420 alos aye
BAPY O} O1ISaP OM “BulyAuR puag
4O Yas “WIOf UBD 3M ‘sn 07 partd
-dns st yoy J9MOd]]1A\ INO [Pe YILA

yy qeadde Aewi qi Aypersyysadns
; "S9SUIS MBYI1 Ol JDaf

~qus Aypeioadse are sBuiaq uewinyy

I] Luvd

--- PAGE 227 of 260 ---

[OCR] 4b

UL S}UBUIATe]S Asay} APLIAA O} Paluas
-aid sem Ayrunqzioddo yonut vay)
souls pascdeya yey] sieved xIs asoy)
Buunc, “Zp6l ul paysyqnd sysom
Aut fo auo us Apeatpe ayods y yarn
jnoqe ‘splom ul s4ajyay Jo Burpprys
ay} Sem jy caury ayy dn pur suewoy
‘syaatgy alii |[e Burpnyout ‘STa]LIM
quarsue ayy Aq padkeld sea saul)
|[e JO saxvoy ysazear ay) jo aug
‘pasn 10 pasnpoid alam
Ady] MOY ‘UTS? YIM AUP Sem Tey
Burjjar jo Aem ou savy am ‘Jsed
ay} JO Yoleas ySnoiy) punoy sP#uryy
AUBWL JQ °° pasanoso aay jou
Pplnom |Uwoluadul,, yey} sed ay
O]UI peyoieves ‘at ysed ay} ul peal]
jou vapr sseps ayy dn yYysnoyy oym
UBUL BY] PEY ‘aplas JO peajsul Mod
-1eu AJvA SEM APISUL aqn} ay} A[UO
10d aafjoo 2 JO apisul sse]s jo apr
‘ S[AYS M3U,, UL UOIZdes}UOD Ie[IWIS
eB MES | O88 SiBad Maj} WY “BUIMOIS
-I9AO S]L payUsAdid yr fypIuU BSUIYOOD
1O} PE pasn dAQ ‘Opisur sjoy e Ya
PUE]S B JO 1410S B Ul] JO ape sem y]
‘ose sivad Q¢ ApiVau auIOY ye pasn

SOPPPPPPPPEEST

ge

BAL UDI BSUBALITUGS PyO ue ayanb
alu Jay ‘ojdtuexe ysnos ve Sy “WU SI
yey) AUOU! BY} JOJ YLieaun sagy Io
‘QUIZESVUL B OVUL Sjad Jey) ainqord
dy} pu ALO[S 9] 10} payjaesaun ac
AvW SULLY} JUBIOUE asoy} JO aWOS
‘$olinjuad 1Of UMOUY Uaeq pEY
yey] dulyjawios yJivoun Aysurwaas
pue jsed 9y} O]UI 3Ip oym asoy
‘ot (“Siayjivoun,, oy} way) [eo
[[EYS aA “BFulpuvyssapun 19}19q 10
DUB B WY} 2Al3 aul jay] ‘osu Aep
}Uasaid 4Of WAOF Palpipour Bw ut 40
AB alues aly] 1ayjla seapt ised ay
Ajdde ©) ‘plo 10 ysed St veya yey
WuO1} UIA] 0] Ad} OYM ‘s]stMaTIs
je Ajivau osye asayi Buouww sseypr
JsNuu aAq “a10lU AUF UOIDeIWE OU
ysnf aie sBuryi palBurj-mau way
1O} ‘fH ay1 Ysnowyl auos aaky
oym atdoad sispjo ayi aoejd Avur
am Way} Suoury ‘ysed ay} ut Alpen
~oeld saat ajdoad jo adAq pay y
“spe@pueds ‘sAvau ‘salAjis
MOU JO ABM DY} Ut ‘A]JaAOU JO ABM
B UL 30D O} BuIOd st IEYM MOUZ
0} Juem sAvaye ABU] ‘aInINy ay] Ul

--- PAGE 228 of 260 ---

[OCR] 6E

SITY JJO UNL SULOPOLU OYF IBY MOUY
plnom ay ft “aAesd sty ul punoie
UIN} P[NOM ssNeIIS PFO pooy ‘IIS
-nul ayy §,Ja7vy] “yoelqns s9y10 stuos
uodn yonoy] om jt ‘ley IVY yoarq
03 0] 9ABY UDAD JOU Op 3A INg
‘D19Y] J UST IBY] SuUIy aos 104 SOOT
pue sjivcl AUVUE OS OJUL apisur mod
jo aoaid & s1nd 1luapNis-uoagdins v
sev 10 pod St 1eyUm Vapl eu] S1D9SIp
AUULAIP JO juapnis & aytp asnf weyl
Burjoasip ‘sysos juaioue jo Apnys
dy1 01 sivad AUPRU pod]OAap aarYy
isnt Asay] “SuUNLIM JO afAIs 119y1 Ul
SOBULYD ISB] 9yYBU JOU PyNed Aasy?
aS]9 ‘UMO IIOY2 ULL IBUIO sadens
-UR[ XIS IO DALY JO PUBWUIUIOD & prey
BABY ISNUL SID]LIAL ISOUL [Py 239A
-Isod puv ains SULYy] 9UO $I atOy |
‘si9yjo Auel pue ayAcy] ueA ‘uOos
-I9ult] ‘uoshuuay, JO se Yyons ‘pred
ypeq UMO INO ul JYs BurmosZ
Usaq AABY LUOYM JO AUBLU  DISSEID,,
1O ,Jualsue,, ale JeYL syoog asoyi
{[B Sy1OM asayy Olu! aye} ABU NOL
adAy afqeyonojun,, a4} 0} ssuot
-aq inq ‘asuas Jo Aquayd yA | paso

GEEZER RGU R DES

ge

-IOP,, SITE PULY NOA ADAIIDYAA "AOA
tons Auy “sulyjou Ajanjosqe ure)
-at pynoo suo “aT ‘uBdeq ay Udy
sv asta se sof sem dapeai ay) ‘ATI
-aied AlOys 3BJOym ay] Buipess saqye
1VY) asvURApESIP 13sy eA 10 Alneaq
euO ay pey s#untim asoyi ing
‘BulsaialuL pue ‘arqisneld papunos
a}01m Ady] saaaleYy AA ‘INoqe Bunyyper
UdAd alam Aay] 1vYM O} SB ssau
-yJep ajajdiues ul pue a8pa uo sua
“peel ay] BUlARa] ‘Aj1UeISUOD puL Al
-yoinb sduryi yons y10mM prnos Aayy
yoy uodn surylowos jo usaied
B pey savy isnt Aayl ‘ao1ey v yons
da daay 0} 1aps0 UY “say1eS01/e ‘asa
BUIYJauIOs Juvat Ady] Inoysnosy1
nq ‘Buly] 3u0 pies Aayl piom
AJIAI UL ABU "SUIY] 9UO saouazUas
41ay) [[¥ ut pres Avy “soys uy cy
uaas BAY P[itod AdyuOp eB uaAda 1ey1
SNOIAGO OS a1aM ‘Opel useq peY
Aayy sv ‘saBueyo s9yiQ ‘uo Suro
SBA JEYAA INOGe ‘S]stVUIIDS Jo sulvigq
aY1 O]Ul YsNo1y}? paiswWUNs savy
JSMUL SBUIYY MIJ BWIOG ‘“SUdTAL
JUZIDUB JO SOS []B JO SOA 3y1

--- PAGE 229 of 260 ---

[OCR] @uliopop ynoqe BuryyAue mousy
PAO’ JL cS S[fa} apf “Vstaa-“sta 10
JOJOOP [BOIpPatu eB JOU puy [voIsins e&
SI 9u0 Jey) Aypeioads UONUatU 0} 39>]
Ady] Jey} Bune ‘saoj}20p [eoidins
pue SiO] DOP jedIpaut ual] ayy ynoge
sayof 39V1D UNL das JAX “palen
-1U1 dt} JO DUO SYM aY SsafuN ‘puvys
-1apun JOU peal PynOd Apoqou jeyy
‘gaoge JO uayods agendur], pivy
[ngae Jey} pasn ay Aypspeunqiopun
yng ‘yl suop sey ay AvmM ayy AUN
sule[dxa apy ‘assnodad jse[ & se sa
-daid 01 Apoq ajoym ayy BSuijino yno
-Y}IN. JOU SUd1}2I09U09 payesdues
Aue yNOYYM SUIT, JVIOYs eB UTyUM
1FeG ay) Pue puUljq sy} ‘aulyy sy
aind OJ pasn sns[advse gy Jey] UmoUy
[Jaa St JI ‘saseasip jo Buryeads
‘aUOp Sem ft
MOY JO Ja199S ay] OUI BA[ap OF ayqe
uaaq S¥y alt} yuasaid ay} jo aouaIos
JO 11¥ ON[ (PIP Sia]sew pjo ay} ay]
Jayjadol 1OJO2 JO YUE yeyy yas
jyouue® Ady “Ytuipe Oo} adey Ady)
Ajqeieauy ‘sSunuied pro Adoo 01
A[UO BulAI] sauiayjes ur prey y10M

PEEP EZEER ESTES EBS

uP

Sjuapnys snonias AUBUL IBY] AOU
am ‘sduijured ©}, spsedal uy
‘ulede $qi1ys
dooy spivMo} pud.s] v IAL O} WWa—ds
Aayy ‘Apayeq syns, suryreq o7 dn
yuaM Aa] Sassasp UswWloOAy JO spie}
Suidaams 493138 ayy Wolf, ‘SapAqs
appeaau-sululEep 3YU} OF ABAD JEM
Aayy syns dooy woiy ‘suoseas
ay] PUR lay yam al} ayty asxuvis
Ay] asnesaq ‘sjiejap o}Ul y
O38 O} dael 3,U0p 3am -sayzO;> YIM
patinsc0 Jey] saBueyo ayi o1 sy
dsivad wapuod jo sdos
sIq 24} 0} paieduioa Augur moy
ynq ‘sasaid aIsnul poo’ maj e uMa18
BACY AM ‘ANIL ‘SUOSEdI POOS 10] pa
-1Yy8LtAdoo aie 7¥Y} SUO1}202U0D puL
Si2]stM} jO-pieayun suulos useAjaqg
ul Bulmoiyy Aq way) ,aziulapour,,
pue sezjjem plo si axed ‘UMO Iay}
jo seapl Ou aAry 1eY} ‘siasoduios
ULOPOUL 9Yy2 Ivay O] BUTI] Puodas vB
uIn} pynom 3fy ‘OIpet ay] UO UIs
-Oid }xau ay] 10; Apear aq 01 ¢]:9 SI
3F e10Jaq YSno1Y] 1aB 0} aoe! e ayl|
sivadde jeyy paads e je sazijem

--- PAGE 230 of 260 ---

[OCR] £F

-duvyo yoois Jo saivys [PELL ATOLL
puy xis ya, Arp e yo doy ay. uo
ws Ang load aul soyeur ouAK
déspouad Buoy] 40] soovjd ay1 proar
Woy} Saye OUM ‘daioyy ajdoad
ay sseip OYA, “UO Buso8 si ey
duiaas JO suraur Aju ayy st days
JOOP BY] LUOAJ AMAIA B SOU] 19YJO 7B
apr ‘s1aqjis AOA JBUOISEIZO 10j
ydasxa Ajdiusa ain sadyyjo siayoiq
SYLUOU TOF YL Suio9d MOLL @uMop
z to dn ue oj sagueys ainjoid aoud
a1 SB UOOS s¥ ‘JAS 10 Ang 0} ajdoad
aIDIaAUL P[NOAM Siayoo[uO Aq apeut
aslou ay] Weyl ‘atam Aa] 1vYyM vas
0} s}UaI[9 ay] 1UeM JOU pip Ady) Jt
‘XN7]-SUEI] 94] UO sUOTIDeSUEL) I[2
jo-sadtid ay] sadiyo siayoig ui Aiea
SaduUBYIX9 3y] pynom asia AYA
‘sosuas Ino Aq papin’ are Aayl yeu}
AOUY ISNLU BAL ‘SYDOIS JO asoyy] sv
]J2X SE SaIPOWWOD Jo sjuauIaAOU
gorid asoyl ynoge ‘asinod JO
‘ode sivad maj ¥% sisaq yons
DWOS BPEL JVY] OFE"IIYD jo ApIssaA
-1Uf) Bi SUM TL aAaT[aq | “JseIaIOY
PIP Sdalsesaio, leyA noqR sisaq

cag

jo Sjjnsar ayi jo sn [fay sarjis4aaa
-1Uf] TRY das ysnf gauly fo prayer
SAIPIPOUILUOD fo saad durpuly O1
Spiedal UL Op OF a[qe uaaq am aArY
JEY AA ASL IO doip pleom Aay) yond
MOY puR [ef OF pey Ady. uayr
pur asir 07 pey AT[eNplatpur saint
~pOUUO? ay} UaYyM Mauy UaAe Ady LE
“Apeale usu) sapiy ul peperl Aayd
JY) pul} am SIYFING LOOT JO Sxtom
ayl Uy] “278 ‘asinod Jo ‘suleis ‘uci
-]02 ‘10 — sIeqqns sad — siaqqni
jO SB YINS ‘SIIIPOWWOD JO SLIOS [|e
jo squsuMAcLU adtid pamo]]op uaAa
AduUI ey} pul jpeys nog ‘eddu3y
snljausory plo OJUT Yoo] Isnf gyonw
AMVA SAIIA ADUY OSTR Ady. ‘ssuryY
qualayip AlaA pue AueuUt 34} JO
JY YUIY plnom “quaseid ye ‘YLIes
uo OY AA ‘Sey PJO asoy? yjIM JeyICg
O1 d[IYMYVIOM HT PULJ UBAS JOU OP sn
JO JSOUI Jey] SjUsIOUL asOY} BAOdqR
4B} OS SaAjasINO [9a BA | SSIUYst
-p[ly2,, Wiapour Ano UT ‘asINED JO
jJUatajJIp st yovoidde ay Ajuo
‘J9YJO BY} JOU PUB sUO 3q joUUED
NOA BY] Jjasanod 10} 3as prnom nod

--- PAGE 231 of 260 ---

[OCR] ce

ssoddy 3alsnsyqoun ‘job ayy jo
34B Ld] JO JSOY) “Sapouse pmaiys
AIQA BLUOS PUL] dM Way] SULLY
‘ysved ay] ul aay
oy asou} ‘auo addy Jo Aju sxeads
yeys aa ‘uoissnosip jussard sry}
ul ‘UO MOU WO} ‘ar1ojasay | ysed
ayy ul st Apog ayy apiyM ajestado jou
Op sasuas AAT} asay] DUIS “IAAaTeYM
poo? ou ural) Op {[Im ada Jo iva ‘dur
-[93} ‘T[elus ‘aqse] sayy “ssadoy aq
are addy paryi ay} ‘szayooruo at
aie adA] puoras ayy ‘sauatiea omy
49410 aq} JO auoU pur pasn aq 07 SEY
yoiym and 347 pur o7 yde air oym
sauo ay} aq ued ‘ysed ay] ur paar]
pey oym ‘sse]j2 Ply? ayy o7 Buoyaq
oy afdoad Ano ‘aauanbasuos uy]
Cjised ayy wi
salty Jey) pue) Apjueysuos pue ysiy
asneo Jeyy MOJO, Pues JUaUIscoUl
ay} JO asned ay} aaey nod ssajun
anpea YONUI JO aq 7,Ued SBuiy} 1ay10
JO suei@ ‘s20}s Jo sasid juazinod
SMOUS yey) J4EU9 BIO JLEYD ssoulsng
Vv ‘ainin} 3yj Jo se [jam se juasaid
ay? Jo ST Jey) SuryiAsana ayeuruya

Py

imu uoTPNpoid yO Junossv uo
puneav daolu sBuryqy Mey NO purz oj
SIOARIPUD OuM suoAUR 10} “SM f-
‘ysed ayy ut
aq ISNU YT satya fpasyt @urAy] “ainy
-nj ay) UL aq Jt ued Fayiiau ‘uasaicl
ay] Ul aly JOuUND pux jsed ayi ut ary
{SN aOjalay}? Jamsue ayy “Apyear
-je usaq pey Duy AIaAT :aduo pres
‘SEM BY 1aAd0yA “EqIyy Wag PIO
‘surppnd ay. ut shevaye
$1 yooud ayy “asipetsads & aie Nod
1eYI sajeqs yoy Jaded jo avaid ual
-]LIaA B WEY] aIOW Saye} II punoi-o8
-AL1aUW! 3} AYU JEY] Voy} se snop
-uadnjs sB SME] PUL} OF ‘8SINOD JO
“yIOIS 9y} :satjda
}I pue sayjorq Aqeq ined JYysnoIG
OYUM I PIO BOF ARS aM JI sv saArvU
SB 91B Jey] sioasue ‘sesuey ul
UIvI JY] atUe[q S19y}O pue yoOo;}No
doid 94} atue}q ouIOs ‘spuapiAtp
ay} UO ISNFD dy] Seq S1syjO ‘sBuUl
-U1B9 QYy SI YL ABS BUIOS GABP dart
-38 UB pa]fEd ST sareys uorptu 19)
-Ivnb Bw ual ‘uI0jjJOG ayy ye yORUIS
JYBU Sy30}S 119y} [jas pue spuey But

--- PAGE 232 of 260 ---

[OCR] “y

Jno afisvd vapeur fF xyes A[svoW
Sem 1nd ‘Ysisuq ul uadd sayyadoq}
asnoy ve iod | ‘ani “(uray Jo Auvul
svat iv) jsaajasurayy yo yeads
SpIOM al] UvUay plo ul uaYymH
‘ysysuz] Yysnosy) s[ssniis wy A,
jooUdIayJIP eB YAAK “UOTIE]sueII
B ing pey | Avy OG ‘asdensur| jeAe
-IPIUI [RUTSIIO s}l ut ,sulaIvied,,
e AUBLULID) WO paule}qo | Aplus.
“DY aM stor ing ‘asueiys punos
Aevw sip “paysiduiosse aq ura an
-[BA Jo Buryyou YsIyM NOYIIA ‘ATS
-S9d3U BINJOSe JO ale YOY saFens
-UL] UBId10j JO YO¥[ Vyl UL |aq Pynoys
AYNIIp uleu ayy il inoqe
yood ples 19AauU SIBBO[OLISE JUSIIUE
ay ‘Aastay YOY Jo ynq ‘uTeIay1
PBUIFIUOD ST YORUM BaPl Mau sLUOS
a]IUA B UL 39U0 ppe O2 afqe aie NOA
Se BSUO] SB S7K9] PfO UL Suusawurey
quaysisiod YI MOIS aspo;AMouy
Ino&é ued os !MOIB Pynad sutuNjos
831g assay] sdosp salva WOl4 "S31
-Bvlels puv saylulse[eys Biq sz uItM
“WON ‘peqsuea imoxé 10; vou
-E][OSUOD BSUO ST alot “TQASMO |]

CREREERERAESDDG

SP

doy e oyu
uIN}] ]}eYys ApNas sjoym ayl yoy
JNOYIIM papnyoul pur pauival oO] are
sduly] yeuotIppe Auvul yey? sapts
-9q 921UFOD31 pue i O1 Buryiausos
St 9194} Jey) VZIUdOII1 YsnuL NO A
‘suiqey [etseds pue spoads way
jo mouy ‘sjoadse jo szlos [je wuoy
‘MOJS 1G Ise} uN sjaurtd In0k joy
©} d]qe aq Isnt NOA “ley 3B aUO
YNIYLP IsOU! ayy puw ABOOIse VIA
St qi ssajun punoy aq lous Butyy
[eed ayt sans) Apjoaysad si Bury1 aug
“We BYy1 JO INO uayxE. aq o7 st Buiyy
“AWOS TEY1 Ji UdAS ‘OJAIAaYI papper
aq ISN Ajissadeu Jo asja Suryatuos
yeyy Ino pury Aay1 ‘Apo lsvystes
if paisiseu sAeY Avy] se ucOs sy
‘ASO[OAISE Pa[[E2 BoUaIDS & st apyel
©1 Joefqns jsaieau ay 3 Mouy
jou op Aay} Mouy Ady fasne> ay
St BuryJaulos Jey psoulauod ale
Aay ‘saouaiiedxa ysed umo nayl
Wolf} Inq ‘s1eJ siay10 MOY Buraas
Aq AjuoO Jou “Burdoy 10 Surssan
jo Arup ay. aziuSorex ‘Aauy
JO, B yuryy gnq ‘aq yyed Aaue

--- PAGE 233 of 260 ---

[OCR] 6¥

quauidopaaap eB Ssi9A02 YDIYM “Sts
-oydioweydyy,, P2[j2o YAO B 9JOIM
OYA PIAQ JO Pavey Ajqissod no
‘IPIS Pe 34} SBUIM 1aMmo] IY}
‘Qpis pood ay} yuosaides A]j-1a}jNq
ayy jo sdurm doy omy ayy ‘Aqf-1a7
-jnq B ayLp SyOo] ainjotd ajoum ayy
jsoys ut‘ yey] OS “Agasay] papaau aie
SUOILYUSPUL UBAd ‘PalIBA SULIOJ ay
sary Ady} Jnq suoistarp Areuipso
ysuf jou aie AayL “ape aq oO} Ares
-Sdd3U SUOISIALP 31e 3134] Wey] eapt
ue nod ants 0] pauonuaut 10 UaAls
Aug aiv aaoqe MoUs ] se sajsue
ay} 100] iapisuod jsnul NOA Bury?
Jayjoue ‘mony ‘uni Aay] ABM 31
SI SIY} Jey] ABS OF arTZJNS "JNO puy
O] pivy aq JOU Pynoys WUYyAUI 1eYM
Ul pu SUNT OY AY “PURY YB ay1 OF
uiese dn pure jaas ay] 0] SprazeMuMCp
puey jjfa] ay} WI, suns yrun 1ay10
34} OPIYA\ “YUN suo se ‘puRYy Iysli
dq} O} Pesy 34] 19A0 puey Ij9[ B OVUL
Bureiedas “12 ‘OO€ ‘O1Z “S61 ‘O81
LIPIs 194}O sy] ‘ssa1Zap Qgy{ o1.dn gO
‘Cb ‘OF “$1 ‘Q apts 2uo +0) poseduios
aq Aetu }L ABOpOsjse jo Buryvads

SERZEEDDEIEGIEG

8h

yey} OS “jf JO apis ojtsoddo ayy uo
UMA JSNU SOUO [IAD dy} Sf “UIP AL
poog oy} ut uNI Jsnu spiom pood
dy ‘sepis OM] ‘peq B pue poos ve
St 949} JOY} MOUY [Te aA “payea.y
suotsas ayy uodn Zutpusadap ‘ainy
-BNY peq B JO se [JOM SB oINJeNY poos
BW JO dq URD SoLies ay] ‘sauatayyrp
YONUE ST 9197 O]LAA “BUI Vues ay]
pue uo je Uvol pynom Aayy ‘plom
yors jo Butuest ay. je Ajasoj>
YOO] O} P3sn JOU st OYA UBL Bde IBAe
3} Of “SUIAUOUAS PaTyed-Os ‘SpLOM
pelejar Moys pazdAjeue Aptodoid
UdYyM YIYM SAAljUBIsqns Jo ssulys
BUO|[ UlB}UOD SadUd}USS 139yj}O s[LUM
‘A[UO OM} Ayjsour ‘ssarpvel[pe je
-19A9S SABA\[E ULEPUOD S32Ua}UBs ay}
‘QS19A Ul 10 sold ur sayjoym eq}
pasijou aaey [fim ‘syaod umo ino
jo 40 sue wuoy Te) Sya0ity $9 asouy
Se Yans ‘$}xa] UaIDue |Say} JO sap
“N}S auIos espeul sey Om auodAuy
iPFldi¢ aut Ppueysiap
-un O7 A3sp1o0 at MO1IG3 [4 JeUlsr10 aljy
MOUY O] NOA JUEM AVY] JapuOM OLY
‘ss3y BuiyJOU ‘jxe] [eUIsIUO ay. jo

--- PAGE 234 of 260 ---

[OCR] IO Sy00]S UL FapRsl vw 1911s WoOI
-pavog  s|[ dsapltll Jo spuesnoy)
IVD BV UIALIP IABY [| asNeIaq isn Ist
-jeioads datjoWOyNY UL J[PSALU [;Rd |
ue) ¢petedaid useq pey peau jeu}
MOY INoge suryyAue MOuy 1,uUss0pP
jnq 1JaUUTP aSINGD ua} v }vs 0] MOY
smouy ApUO OM UB eB SLInoida ue
yer nod pyno~y, adAppsaqing eB awos
~aq 01 aaddnd & uaty) ‘uoM B UayT
‘ada ue isilj petmbar a wui inoeqe
SulyJAuB MOUY JOU OP INq ‘aUO aas
Aayl uayas Atjiaqing B mouy CUM sia
-MOUY JO Sistuaias afdoad yans jpva
nod pynom ‘AU [Jal ‘MON “Appialng
BST UI apy 18430 ay] pue A[pIAI
-jnq % O1ut suiny aeddnrd aya quaus
“OU 341 9U0 [[eD [PEYS am ‘apy
B JO] PesleUrlul[a aM YdIyAR suos
-1od Jo sadA1 19410 OM) 941 01 Sy
‘usaMteq Sl ley [Je pue
pua ue usymM ‘Buruuigeq e sayviu
BuULySWOS UayM ‘SSuly] Jo Sulit}
ay} st uleidxa Ady. 1VuM “TOYS U]
‘QaBENBUL] PItaaod ul [fe ‘nod 0}
pourerdxa mou isnf | ey uey? asya
Suryjou InNoqe udm sAeY $]UeId

os

-UY 241 ley} “ade of saquiaulay

j PUY Sayer yey) ‘Appiaiiaq Bw aq o
ing ‘Aauoy Jad 0] 08 Oj saxty] ay 49Aa
“219M ‘BIBYMAIIAA J91]N[J Ud ALY
~19]1Ng dy} ‘ans y “49A0 yoIND St afl
$1 ‘A[L19}]NqQ eB adU0 UsY4 AA “JsdTUO
ay] saye. saddnd ay} ojUL Wom
dy} BIA aduys 339 94] Wooly Jud
-doysaep att {, :sueaur oun) jo yrdua
JEUM SMOYS J] ‘OBe]UeAPe LUMO
INO JOf asn O] pue AjNfaies ye yoo
QO] '8AlasgO O] sanyo jo sjios fe sn
SPl10jje BINJYNE SNU_L ‘sUsWIAOU!
321d JO SUOT]OU []BWS ay] 3121
“SN][f O] ‘BIAAL 410 9911 34} UO SyA\EIO
}I SB ‘uotjow s]t asm 02 YSIA am
ssajun ‘oinjord oy} OluL Jy pynoa
yey} moy ule[dxa Oo] piey Asda SI
‘991s repIdiayeo ay] “suoseai poos
JO} ISN4ID Pr¥Y Sj Ul S9A0013 sey Ng
Jappni yons ou sey aaddnd ev ‘puod
a] punole J[asSuIy 139]s 0] Jappns &
sey ajodpe] & ay Ay “Ajj-1a1]Nq BuO
tale] A[UO pue aadnd ¥ uay “UL0M eB
sii} #39 Jay1ouR wos 1aF NOK os
:dO1j B UO Tate, AyUO pur aodpe? ze
jos isaly NOK BZa uv urosy se yons

--- PAGE 235 of 260 ---

[OCR] ts

IM ‘SITIPOWILUOD BY) J[B Puy ‘sydoIs
ye dL ‘sysoyYg Ano YpA jueld
jetuuazod oy) Puliedwuios ‘Mopy
‘suol}oas aAtp2adsai 34}
ul ,Apiey,, Jou ae Asay ssajun “Wop
-[as AINA speruuasod 03 suaddey yey)
ynq ‘00} pasoljsap st waysds Joos
ay] vay] ‘“usyjedoyle yno sarp juejd
dy) Jy “aj2A2 Yea 10} Si Jey] ‘aeadk
yore SuIdaq YUJMOLZ ay} YDYA WO. |
ulaJsAS JOO1 B SEY J[ “(yenuue ue
jou) JomMoj{ etuussed e ouTdeWy]
PBUIMO[[OJ dU}
SI SOTPIPOCUNUOD PUB SYIO]S JO Sud
-pei} 0) opin’ v se dn yury1 oO} afqe
ugaq dALY | UOLLEAISTY]E JSeq ayy

NOILVYLSOATH NV

jApjlaqing

ayi JO SINOJUOD dy} PuNOolE shee
uni suAUOUAS JO Salles By ‘SNy_L

“SLIBYD JOYIVLW YIM pals

-L9A A]iS¥S aq UBD SIU ‘Afl] 07 ual

JOU Sa0p puke Ss{[lx ABM Suoim Jey)

pue jisilf ABM Buosa ay] o8 wry

aAPY JIM nox, ey} JO Yury] O}

BINS 9q ‘9 9L1] BY} SIOP OYA 930 9y]

PERIUEDUEDED EE

es

uo WY NOA pynoys Yeyy OS jIYsU
JOU PUB BUOIAS JSATp SBULY] OP 9"7] OF
ulgaq sABM[L aM ‘AM St Jey] pur
YIM 19A0 []B Ft Jad OF Atay ABYy] 91
Yeap tray) Joy Ajsnorsuoosqns YOM
Oo} auold ase uay :adueyiodut 4sa
-jvaid jo Buiyy aloul auo mouy
“JOU LUBY puR as8uryd OF
WaYM MOUY OF (UO}JOO ayy UPA 10
JaAt{ ayy PIA Buoim si Buryjauios
uays ass ued NOA JPiT] ‘jas UBO|;
ay] pue asti uns ati sas uo nod
yeyi Os ‘stiqey pure sdem reynoad
ul ‘Aem 14811 ay Punoie o8 Aqeq
yey] oyeusl O1 sppe }e aie [Ws am
Udy} ‘QUO BY] aABY 9M UdYM Usas
WY ‘AWAIMOY ‘sppv sMs[advik¢
‘posu OA YOIYA UOLOUL 2Y} pul
O} JMO JIP [[e@ ye aq Jou pynoysy]
‘pasn aq ysNtu YLY] SUOLOW asoyy Jo
3UO Sf] ‘SBUO Pozed0] Isa} e] BY] Bul
-pnjour ‘sjaue(d 1ayjo 94} 07 sond
-de aures ay [ ypfesil Aq [je suojouw
[eNplAipul Op aos sey jsjas}e ung
al] Wy} Adojorjse WOT, MOU BAY
gade] ayy rao ssed yeyy said ayy
smouy ay asnedaq jsnl saijipouwos

--- PAGE 236 of 260 ---

[OCR] -SSO1D DY] SLOS pur $]OO.1 sit ye yoeg
St [etuusatiad ayy ‘sSury2 yons 310
spuaplaAIp alow ou Aed Aay1 asnvo
-9q WAY] JO pl jad OF A] Ady] usta
AWUI] SY} St ey] SMO] Joytew ivaq
punoie sad1jjO ss9yo1q JO ssauly
-duua ay} WOly UMOYS SI SE ‘WIOY] 10]
puetuap Ou Ajainosqe st aay] ways
SuIyJOU A[IVIU OF AD1UIM JY] UT INO
|[2S OF WAY BA"S pUe sj[aAg] YSIY
Ajausiai1xa iw syooys aaey Aaya os
pure azouldur alayl 1ust .eyy Aauoy
a1 yno xyoNs O1 BulAry uO daay Aay yp
‘sdojs ADUOU ay? U@YA Way] []37 10U
saop saypawis iay1 Ajaiwunjiosupy
“‘pey aq uvo (AsuouL) AsuoY JO JOL v
uoumM “Suriuo) aie sdoy uaym [aus
0} asou ev svy dYqnd ayy jatojaq
you Inq 19MO]J [[NJ Ul aw Ady Uday
Ajuo syqnd 9yi 1oviqe 01 afqv aur
Aay} MOY ‘s3soys Ino YIM psn aq
ystltu Bapl sues AIIA DY] ‘00} Sivad
-desip auunjgied ay] vay? pue a1ayy
WBE fase jo 1uNOIe UO IO Ja]VM JO
OP] AOS SI[IM JaMO]J BYT I]IYA ¥B 19]
-Jy dXauoy ay} pury ppnos ssaq mou
Japuom sada nod 1upiq, ‘Aauoy ayy

tS

PUTJ OVI mopfoy or sey ysl 4puasins
ley] Ul aduo dulaq pur aunyied 9
“SIAUL AY JO Plalp WN aUBVLU Tey) OF
$99 }i Ale ay YFnosy? salty aaq ayy
SY ‘loudvul v jo adeys aul aavy oF
Stu9as BUINJiEd SI] “saMorp szl Jo
euinjied 342 Jo UO Ul Avs O1 OS Ja
-S¥1P 2[QISIAUL Ue Sey saMol] Tey)
IN “aMOT} AY] tory AVME J99d4 UD)
oq Avw [eutue apy wyp ‘aaq v
aq P[NOYS I3Adasqo ayl yt Aljeivad
“Sx] “A10UL YONuU sadnou IsAsasqe
dala 34] ‘I2A9MO[Y “He O] saeyAy
He Sk leyl sayoojuo jesqued ay
OL “4amol} ay OjUI Ajpeury sdojaaap
PN siy_L “AAslasqo aM IIMOTI JO Pury
ayi uodn Surpuadap ‘way jo [e19
-AaS IO pNq Jamo]} e199 aw spueA
-dolje -saaval aoupoid yoy jet
-ualad & uO uaAd) SYDUBIq-apIs
Male MOTOS UBL “1sa1y MOIS WIS
24) 1981 AAA 'ZEGI aunf ur aram Ady]
SB SaN]eA Yyeyd aa uayM ALIA
A[isea UBD aA YIIYM ‘INoqeasay 10
b/€ C1 8/1 wor aie Aaya syo01s uy
“PSARS SI IBY] [Te St 1001 ay] JayazvUl
4voq v JO WOllOg ey? le 1eYy1 puy

--- PAGE 237 of 260 ---

[OCR] 4g

‘QuIvUqNS & aABY ‘BIOJoq JO uaxyods
‘SUINUN USA “]fOA SPTJ SUL ot}}
(ajoym v SB JB poyoo] Usym) 21}yUa>
Sit spieMmo} uorissaidep 1ysls ve
svy javyo & uo pazjofd ‘yuaweaacut
ASIMIPIS JY} JO LUAOJ BY} BOUIG “sije
-feu eLeljEIUOs IOF aWTeU YSIPuy
ay} si AappeA-ayi-JO-Appry “sursaq
JUSLUDAOL B:q B B1OjJaq ‘taduo| aad
“YUoUl BO} SaaM OM] WIOL) JSvU] ued
Yat neayeyd v yo y410s B UOJ AdY |
‘puodsq Sursnpoid Jsaau Inq Aj
-adtu duel ayl [fff OF SUIAB spiem
-UMOP are[} puke dn aizyy saouid Aq
-d1aYM 3[PPlLU ay} UL aur] ABAs-ppey e
jO ]40S B BABY am ‘SNY ] “MOlaq UOl}
~D9[Jal B MOYS [{e AVY] JOY OS WIdY}
Japun pase[d si 1O1Iul auOs }eBy}
auisew jsmu NoOA sased [Pe U]
“saypue2
AULW YAS 9489 ABPY] AIG BIg BIARY
NOA jl $B SYOO| JI asya 10 autdnsiod
& Jo ULys ay} NOK d1o0Jaq aaky no
jise Sivadde yi ‘40 ‘way wo1j yyea
ay} uayeys pue syefeu eliey[eZa
uoy Jo yo}eq & Snpun savy noc jt
se owes 94} syoo}; ainjoid ay] Jey)

BERBER OE BO EBD EET

gS

38S [JEYS 9M ‘OS aUOP aaey am 1ayyy
‘ureydxa 0} Burd1] Wie | yeym yseq
38s UVD BM 7EY] OS Walp sO Yes
ay1 ayvys uaAa pur punoid ayy
JO IMO wal? Bip jsnta aw jnq ‘yoa}
-jad si uoryusosar ay} Butds Ayaea
AY} Ul “BaI] SlUOS JapUN IO YBa oY]
Suoje yrieq & aavy uaa Avut fy ‘SI
~qey Sjl jnoge sjizjep umyqo oy A14
puv uel essnoyuse1s Auv 01 O8 ‘Alive
-UOHIIP INGA Ui JOU SIT Jy “Biyuny
payed yue|d 8 asn am suo} j0q 104
‘paunloy are Aayy
se sjuvid asoy] 0] Bulguejaq usal
~qed ay} 40} Yoiea pure sqieys Ayrep
Po][eI-OS ay] Je Sulyoo, Ajassaur Aq
sdo} pure swiojj0q iajjeuls ay oz
-3oda1 0] pajqeua aie am sjueyd ured
19> jO sjiqey ay] Sutsequomay
j Aes UBD Lapely Jaeus ¥
AUBUI UBY} 91OUW SI Jey} Puy “wayne
do} a4} teau 10 1e Ang 1,u0M nod
pue MO] B 1e9u 10 Je Jas Vay [JIM
A9ASU NOA “B1OWAUL jI JasIOJ UCP
pue “yiwey Aq ainqoid siy} uieaq
* WIO]}0q &
10} do} & yYOoIstt oyM aspeal pada

--- PAGE 238 of 260 ---

[OCR] 6¢

JO pud 947 OF aod aa sy “uor ead
-xa OF AsivAUOD St JEYT AUO yoAdxAa
aAolu B Yyons FO pua dy. ye ‘19A9
-MO}-[ (apis dayyta uo puodag dunias
JOU ‘SyoaM [E1BASS ASIMAPIS Fuse] )
Usas aq UR) Wat JO Splatf
uaaa ABU ‘say eq Ul adxfl{ BAP FNC
mois Aayl ‘aier Aur yy “(jj durdArc
UL ae, aq [[IMm Ady) Yury oyM asoy)
jo Asnojeal) moypjad ult swoolq ase
-ixes eB ATPEULION “Arp Ape] aq ismun
pur, ay sapisag “(jsdo1 sn aaiZ
Aay] UYAA JapuoM OU) Sadvyd Auuns
TAYIOL A|I[ AaYI TBAWMO]Y ‘JUR]
jlemp jeyl jo saisads [eraaas ate
AIL ©, ,esesIXeS,, Palyeo yuryd ve
jo ainjoid ay} Aq paulzoy Inq ‘ain
-1d Iv[lwis @ aAvy a dol ay] UO
*‘s1eqs apered-dn ayl pure
ino pedim aie aay sdoys aed oum
Siapeiy SY f 08 UBD aM PUL Iva] St
ajeys sy] Usy_L “UL Saluos aAou! TA10US
siqy uaym AeMe pated sdemje
a4e Ad [| “JUSWIBAOLE ISIMADPIS at?
aojaq isnf sdo3s Aliza oyum ‘palie ws
“INO 108 SaiVUls 3Yy1 []e a1aym
aed aj] osye si sil “Sutmsdn ayi

as

JO} BUlUIN] MOU ate aM yey) [eUdIs
DY] Sl IeY YT “AAO ay] to} MOT MoU
e 91941 SuIAIS ‘Jensn uRYy) alow apy
-i[ @ Uayean ATUuappns sagiid uaymn
‘OM] UdAa SOLUTAUIOS ‘AEP 3UO aARY
am ‘apis wojeq ay] Buo[e luau
“9AOLU ISIMAPIS YONS Yva JO pua
94] spizemMO} ‘peuoljuau 9q isnul
Ayuetynoad aiow aug ‘(j worjesrayy
sdojaasp aaoudn 8tq e) saw0s
UIOO]G JO SSL B YSIYAN Wicd} syteds
nq suryjou aie queld  eryuny
eB jo spnq saMmoy ay [re ‘snp
00] oul pue yaedg :suveur jeyy
pue je-1 ‘YUN-] iswuaes JI ‘oo[vIp
URLLUar) Ul Jo 1YyZnoey] pue pasunou
-o1d ji leryun ‘mou quai siya
a}e1ISUOWAp AyTadtU UBD | ‘S1JIYSs Ing
SUNYIOU BIB “YDIYM ‘YVAN IO UNE
pafjea Aayl sasensury yyM sjuaio
-uY ay? Aq apeur sore} oY] JO Se [sm
SE $19}}a[ JO Sullyjrys jnoge aoxn{d 49
“YO aes Je uayods Bulavpy ‘oq
aind suoojq eueyeAuoy ‘anqq ut
1O allyM UL BiyUuNy ay ‘Ajasnjoid
WOO;q puke [Jan apeys 94} UL Mold
Yiog “AT]If Jo Wey st sed ysury asoum

--- PAGE 239 of 260 ---

[OCR] 19

noA MOys Apyoinb [pia syueyo yoeq
WO sqsay May y “sqaed yurd jo Fn st
YDYAL UY}, AY] AO} 'BAOLU S,[OO]
OU} IOf YDJEM SAAT Y “JUIUIaAOW
AIVIZUOI 3Y} Ul JUaIaAOLU [eNy
-9B ay. JO JUNOWe ayy aBpnf ud aw
JUAWIBAOLU asiMapis sy] JO YyIBUI]
ayy uodn aun yokes Buipuadac
‘punos AvM 190 By} A[UO ‘addy
BD[UN-] ay. JO st uoryeuoy ay)
uaym paijdde aq uv> ates ayy
fa}}u2 eB uo pedunft
pey ay yeyl ino punoy ynq ‘Ave
05 1! a1ojaq asioy ayy uo dunfl 0}
HAep ay} axl] Uebel ‘asl e Ajuappns
MES OEY iSplemdn sao s joy auy
jo duryeads ‘quoys uy ‘paysinbuea
puz YOO) ‘mes ay :alqrg ayy yo | wuts
~Ieydn jaya} sua, pjo ayi si yy
. ‘(B8r6I
‘Adenue[ Apweg) ‘aoueape sayjiny
B jou pue doip dieys & yq0}3 Sug
‘sjulod aay e yo dn una shep om} 10
uO Uappns & Yim ysiy Aiesoduiay
B 1B S{UBUIGAOL ASIMAaPIS ‘gpE|
‘ABW! fO puz sureid aag “sacuidn
UR Y}IO} BUlIG dolp sAep om) 10 suo

FUSE ERUPT

a9

Wappns & YIM (mol Arvaoduia) v pv)
JUBLIDAOLU ASiMapIsS ‘asay pouleydd
-x9 soovyd Om] asoy) Oo} sayjdde isnt
ye pue 608 nod op aiay ay :suvaw
AQUAyUIS UBT] siyy “ZdStastyusiosg
Aq ,StpPA ONG,, JO Alois ay} peal
aary ABUT NO A “oIGNd 3Y] aYL] AvALe
pales jou are nod yey} os soaouw
dernsed yeisads asoy} pur ur daay
aseald ‘y10M apy sry) ut aoeyd 13
“YJO alos Jv sdoqs yo yeads | usym
AYA SEILYL ‘Ope yoru ynoyjin
ACME Paliued jsnf aia uo1js9]
-o1d ios sdois [py ‘yaeu uonsonb
94} poutoy doup payoim ayi aiojoq
SH QAOLUGN asyey sy fp gyIeUuL uo
~sanb 943 89190U NOA pig “a1 gaBea.y
aip AC isyes :suvew pur uruiuar
JO UO!}90DU09 B Ing st piom ue]
lOfANeaq Sly} UsAq “aseijixes jo
Pes]sul UOdtay] Wily Mold senjun.|
pue apel st MO; poos e& jun aan
“Ou JNOUIIM UMOp adunjd pue purus
fray} suey Aayy ing (j8p6] '€l-6
‘ue f sues aas) ‘YySnoiy) uns prnom
Ady} Jl se ysnf ‘sdep Aa} EB 10} dn
Ajuappus und Aayy juauaaour ayy

--- PAGE 240 of 260 ---

[OCR] £9

‘odiv[ 10 [pets “sapway ue oy UlEydxa
pue asja duiyiawos atinb ojul 41900
Jaays 0] ButAd) ure y ‘asinoes Jo
‘parpy ate Ady] UO Jaye q ‘awiAsxa
A1ayi O pases Wolf MOLD Ady] $921]
0] aledwoo 0] 3Aey aM spuog
“yyel Aqvq aq prnom
WY L “UNI snomo1ay eYr ayer O14
pey isnf Aayi Ja11eq auIBsaq sauty
asnevooq Jeyt eu fa} O1 AL 1,uoCc]
“APEDI[E QU] BUC] B 10] dtat[] 19ACY
pue (ied 01 ysnf you) gg, ol dn
und Aayl pip OUI} OU Ul pure oflyumM v
aiinb 104 3184} padvis ‘[ 0] paurpap
yey AUB saquIauial J “1ay1O Alaa
ayy 07 pua auo wos duinf uade Aqe
-usn Aayy “BO1y Bunod v se APAY
se aq ued Aay [| ‘as[e sutyjou op ing
‘spuapiaip Aed A[UO IVY] Sansst apes
‘p¥ap ssay 19 afouu aie Aayl ley) uols
-saidtur ay jo si dtfqnd ay, spuoq
mnoge luawow e IO} DSuryeads
‘syn
-payos awiy lualajyIp A]UO ‘s43015
ut se AeM dWes AIBA ayy ‘stulod
paipuny moj, 10 aay} JO UMOP
Jo dn passim e AG paMmo][oy ‘uUaUI

|
a | | he .
|

ao

-BAOW ASIMEpPIS JO ported
UaAD IO SYIUOW aaIyT vw sat
~WOD Asay, JO Auv ul savy AVE NO A
‘pajOO] Jad J “Op pur aivmog ‘sy201S
,UOWLUOD,, & SE dAI]LDB Se aq JOU
-UBd AJIPOLWLUOD pepe} aylil] ‘ppo

ue Jey] ssangd ATysno1 prnom nox
‘syoO]s JO syuaut
“BAGU AY) YOTBM UOTIIILU B ‘PIO poas
-UO}}0D Ed]EM ALU SL3apeL] UIZOP v
SPUAA “SUUIYZAL Buty QUaIayTIP UT Bul
“Y41OM YBNOYI UdAa ‘sxDOIS UL se BIG
se pue juanbaly se aiz suoneniantiy
atid ay] “as Ja1e] 10} JNU JeUT Jo
SPVO[IED B]PUBY URI CYM satuayeq
BIq 10 e002 UL ape4) ABUL sattol
-28] alvjoooy> se yons ‘way? ur po
-isoiaqul Ajjetoadsa aie oym sdnoigs
[[vlus AY palpuey A[uo aie sartpou
~WOD BY} JO 1SA1 ay] ‘IBAIMO] “UD
~109 jO Sdapetl Aq pamol[oj ‘sures
Sapel] ssvlu 1xXaUu ay? ‘suoT]eIOdI05
JO Sy90}s sapea} Aluoleu adie ay
JY] 9}0U 2M ‘Sdaped] Jo uoNquy

“Sip Jeuctjiodoid ay2 jo Buryeads
“JUIWUBINSEIU 104
pesn oq ysnut yey] uoiwiodoid sy]

--- PAGE 241 of 260 ---

[OCR] $9

a4) OF }YsNOY] B aatd OF UBYI d19q)
40 a194Y julod v azaanbs urs Aay)
MOY SUI;BeULy Asng OO] ae sanipow
-WOD 13YJO IO suleld ‘syD0]s UT Ady}
aq ‘pury Aue jo siapes? ‘snuy
asyja BulyjAue 3as 0} ‘a[3ue
uONNIsip 410° s3jes  ‘“Bulinjoey
“HULL BY} OF YINUI COZ pany? sada
484] savy ‘apeul uaaq prey juow
-aaOIdtul Ue YdIyA Ul apatite ay}
Y1l Op 0} savy OYmM sauo ayy GAem
puey-yfo ue ur jdaoxa ‘Aaysnpur ayy
YUM paldeuuod Ayjenjze aie oy
asoy} Aq JOU pure sJaprsIno Aq apeu
ale plalg AUB Ul apeuL suoNuan
-UL 94} JO SOW JVY MOU NOA 0G
dafoy & SuLyeW No
“UIA Uf OUI Jed ay PIP MOL ‘aptsur
WOM [Nji]nevaq B sBYy 1eYyi ina puy
BM SOUIJUITJO JY MOLY [Te an
‘Jad pue j1ed Aoinf jeer oy] oyu jad
O} ayqeun 13A9 aie youyas “90 ‘yovad
‘read ‘ajdde ‘yinay snoiosny auios
JO ULS ay] puNnole UNS BU) saljaaq
SY] a1e sjauuRYyD jayse 4>da1Ip
yBno1y) ayqefreae adpajmouy 4194}
YIM ‘staped} solu Jeu} au O07 Sand

¥9

-20 UOSTIRGLUOD SY] “SyY90}S ANOA
Jo JayjO dy} 10 aUO UT Pieay spamog
ay} JO sduyquint usppns Aur oO}
SUNLUWE JOU div Ajoins nod ‘Buidoy
pue ade} sy} Je Bulyoo, jo siesd
Ajuaar] 4aqzye ajid ysoduros ayy uo
4nO JOU 31e NOA JI ‘Yad puy “9}}0q
SSUIY] VAS O} WAL 3Y] UL JOYS ou Vv
nlOA BARB AY} A[[VUOISEDIO) *,,9SV9,,
-sIp Aue O} QUNUILUT UO MOU WOAY
aie nod jyeyy ppiys B ayy yay nod
‘QUOP SUM JI Ad] py OO} AVAL dures
JEU] BULYUIY] OJUL payeULIdBVA Buteq
‘Aijenpeid skew ay) dn paysid no’
Moy jpasinod yuIyy ysnf !youueyo
yey} UL UNS SpullA Tey] ¢Burssan3
pure duryoo] gy10M JeUAY °° aUOp
SI YtOM S ABP Jey] ‘syUeyy ‘UIese
ayzeazq Asay] “yDO/9,0 3014) si 4E
Ud AA ‘MOYS ¥ UL SI9dURP Jar]eq jo
S89, ay] 1 Burmoo] aiam Aayy J se
€ 01 Of Holy ade} ayy O1 panys saxo
Heyl YM tay jo spaipuny oui
AUL UL Mes f ‘aq TYSiu ade) says
a4i JO 91] }xBU PUODdAS ayy UdAa IO
YXou BY} JBYM JO Burpyur ue yas oy
isnf Met]s & UO aljaaq B ay s@ury

--- PAGE 242 of 260 ---

[OCR] 49

BP Sl pall ay) ‘atisn; puew syaos qe
JO S3S1]1U puesnoy} Om? awos Svy
JayIO 9Y2 ‘saydInYyo Npo gp auIOs
Sey way? JO auO “1Yslu pue Aep se
yUaIa} {IP SB Ie SALIEPUNOY ay) avsU
BAT] 1eY1 asoyl Jo Sutyvads uaaa jou
‘SUAMKO] BSOY] JO YO"A Jo squRdn a0
AY] ‘suMO] Sulutofpe veiy1 aavy
aa AltuNWWOD WAKO AW UT ardue
~K9 1OJ “OSTAA-APLLUB J “ASIM~A1I9 ‘OSIM
-9}e¥1s Inq “IsaA\ pue yseq ur Ajuo
JOU S39UIII} FIP Jvars aie aiay
“BUIVIOUW! ay? Ut
dn jad Aayy Ajieza Moy Jo aatiaadsas
-11 “BULAI[ B AYBUL UBD JOAa satiny
AIUNOD 3Y1 MOY Jlasuy yse or sey
‘Vqnop ou ay ‘AqjuNO? ay} UL uONeS
-BA Aqlwod SITY SaYeT PULY J9YI0 ay
WO ‘1axIO, MON B Ud Ay “snoasy)
-UOD UBAD $1] | WaYyt 4Of YBNoua iszjy
suiaas SULUION] “pI Ysnosy. oF o1
uraas Aayy peads doy yey iv paysi
-UO}SE SI AY WIOA MAN O7 suinqo1
Pur dull) JO YIsuay Aue 104 Isa nO
SAAT] BUO UAYM IqNOp ON °,,a4¥ Nod
O4M 1191 []IM | pue Auedwios daay
nok woyM YUM au jay, iskes

99

yoy gdaaoid po ue st arate
asyveds ayqig ayt Yslym Jo puey ay
Jo (ssaujam) ssauivy ay 10 gales 10
JEP ILS ‘MON “WaYy] OF PULy Stare]
ssaqun ‘sorlou qioys uo dn paueals
aq Ol a0uRYyoD Q¢g-Qg eB adey Ady
yey] Bupputy] usdea jou ‘aaAow 1x9u
yey) uo dn-uvay> @ ayeu pias Aaya
MOY PUL OP [IIA Slaylew oy7 lym
ynoqge [JV vay [[lM udad nod uray}
YUNM palurenbse 191}0q lod NOA
J] ‘yey. INoge Ye MoUYy suOpes} [Lv
-1]9e8 OY] ING “INS LUV |] JeYI Jo ‘s19
-lWWOdM3U JOP SNOLIO]sSAtU JSOUW $1]
“UBYINY VY] WoOIZ 10 0] ABM AY] UO
daem aos Aq poddoip useq peu
saje(d jo ajid & yi se ‘sysne] pug 19]
-1EY9 [BUOISED20 UIA pajdnoo (uo
sulos SurIyuly] Yon Oo} anp Ajqe
-qoid) wyeo snourwoe YyonUl $1 3194}
WY gaoueuly yo sardweal poaurez
-Ina Apiavay ‘Aiwaip pue yiep aie
S9Dd1JJO SIaxO1q ay] Jo ysOU Alp UES
eal & SI 8194] IBY? MOUy NOK OG

; ‘uray day
TY4SIW 1ey2 ‘punos aq ppnod sayovoid
-de ‘Jou 10 sayleyM ‘tomenys

--- PAGE 243 of 260 ---

[OCR] 69

ssoj pkey yey) Bang wv ul os you yng
‘Auedtuoo jo Ajuatd pey Aayy ‘anos
o3 pip sduryy yr VYUBnNoy) Apqeqoid
Ady? OS OO MANE UT “UMOUYUN
P[O2 ay) Ul quit] eB uO yo Jyay Buraq
jo seay ayy sem qr Gaoys up uedoid
YIGA MAN UL SB ASBS SE JOU 313M
Aguour Buiyeut so sarjtunyioddo ayy
yey) Bap! ayy punoie padejd samsue
ay “ayeys 10 aoe[d layyO atuins 0}
ano jou cp Aay) Aym ajdoad payse
uayjo aaey | silva pros Ajuam)
JO} YIOA MANY UL BULATL dp Ay
“yont 00} juny
Avil yt asja yaalqns ayy Oo} uononp
-OLJUL 3]2}L] B ayYVUL Tajyyaq | ‘yt Aes jf
alosaq ‘AjjDe1102 IY Pynoys ‘ssapaty
-laaau ‘YydiyM ABM BuIpunos-pivy
Jayyel e ul urefdxa | ‘saljipouw
-WWO> pasn afi1]] 41 JOU puL s3d01s
apel] OC} sayly syqnd ayy AyAy
‘8/04 M E SE UMO] BY} Pur Sleai}s ay]
‘yOO]q A]ID ay] Jos om 1eL tayied
-O][@ PaluNod ‘wayl si 4 ‘Jad puy
‘0]8 ‘J9yYRUI-YoTeM PUL 1evq Jo se
YONs JdYIO ay} Jo JeYI wo} Ajaqerd
-W0d sidjjip doys suo ul yoaeds

TeTEEERETECBEL!

Bg

PUT YT OS | AavyNguI0a puv asnuar
UMD SIT sey doys Ye “say 10 ayi Oo}
PXOU BUO JAaYKU YYS-ajpuvs ve puL
TOYEW-YIIUM L ‘AOYeG B IALY NOA
yojq AO ev ul ‘AEM dures OL
S481 papel] Si xe|} sty asneoaq ysn[
“UULYA ‘yining ut A[UO PIsSalayUL
SI JayiOUY ‘SUBaAG MAN Ut Jape]
4O}103 B foSeoYD UL tapes ures
BPyYIOA MAN UL Pelsaleyur se S19
~PEI) Y90}5 AYA St Tey ‘sainiysqns
40 spo8-iuiap Auv queasy jou Sa0p af]
“ysoyd AJOU pue uos “Faye “py sry
SI AIPOWIUIOD stpy ‘asja SuUIyJOU pur
FEY Sl “S39 ‘rapes eoosos “tapery
aPiy VY “sulelg ul paisaiajur Ajuo
St topeiy ulredd B ajiymM ‘pmoiy uMmo
SIY IO} St J9pe4} YOIS Y “saopesy ut
PUTJ 9x UOTJeNITIs aues AIBA ay]
“9910} Jaays
Aq ‘0] aary isnf Ady} ssarun aiayy
O38 usAa yOu op Aayy ‘S19YIO OAs]
ali JO suo Ul sat Jou pjnom Ajluntut
“UIOS BUG JO SJuRIGEYUL al “VAL
AQ] UlalayM Arauaos jo ad4q au
SH sluviqeyur ayy jo A#ofoyodsd
ey], “Uwo] Burysiyy pue apijuessdu

--- PAGE 244 of 260 ---

[OCR] 86624 - OSb (S06)

irp2

Tay MOT

epeury oueUQ uodurelrg
YINos jaang uleW O9T
T’S%6 XOg Od

aquMm

Jau aarasTeqo[sMoenueyeq

prouta

oenuerpeq- /jouaarespeqops mms / /:dq1q

“SmaU PUB SaOTe se To" Se

‘squtidar jo ysty ajopAur09 & OF AMIS Gam Ino 1IStA

auow yornu puy — ff

suomyean Ssurayotv O
alopylog = joreLayL, O
sZopoyusw O sisqunn ©
wisyoquudg AZojonsy ©

jutidoy seruelyeg

OL

“ulede
dn sayem ayqnd syi aojaq uaddey
ysntu juejioduit Buryywosg ‘s19
-yaas ALIsOlindD JO s1IOs ffe Jo Bula
-Y]ed Baas am (2UTP3pP pazis poos)
pun, awos Jo Juapimoe uv saily

jUsyi slevulurIEd spas
OSTY | poo# Alaa ajsey Aayy “spoom
ay2 Ul sufoorysnin yo syios {ye
PUL] aM (aUIPap Biq ve) Inod-umop
AABay B Jalyy :seydwexe 12y1O
‘uMOp puke dn saow
sapiy puke daqqni  saliipowuios
242 Moy adpaymouy yA sn ysiu
“Ing pynom ss0ys jo tired e Jo 91
Be Buldng [yeo pjneys euoawos ssay
-un “‘duiyiou Mouy Asay ‘soiipou
“tUOD JOLI9fUI 94] Inoge Inq ‘Bury
-AlaAa MoUy,, ABY] YIYA Noe
‘syoo}s 0} Burs Adyy jr way) oweyq
no&é og «,Auvdwios saaoq Asasiyy,,
shes ysyM qiaaoid ay} Jaquiauiss
Aew nox ‘ajdoad uous xis uryy

--- PAGE 245 of 260 ---

[OCR] 69
Deteoting the Change of Trend by Means of critical
Degrees

Measuring longitude on the earth is measured from a fixed meridian.
Greenwich is usually taken. Longitude in this sense is the uugular dist-
ance through a place, such as New York City from the fixed meridian,
Greenwich. It is always measured from East to West. Astronomical books
tell us that the anguler distance of a point from a great circle is the
angle subtended at the center of the sphere by the intercept of the
secondary of the great circle through the point between it ud the great
oirole, The angular distance of one greut circle from unother is the
angle between two great oiroley. This iy the same ay the ungle subtended
at the center of the sphere by the intercept of their common secondary,
lying between them, Poyitons of cities are determined that way.

Their explanation of. celestial longitude is as follows: The celest-
dal longitude of a body iy the aro of the ecliptic intercepted between
the first point of aries and the secondary of the ecliptic through that
body, The value found is always expressed in degrees and minute and
counted from the first point of aries,

A pr longitude of 85°15! means that the planet is 85°15’ distant
fron arieg, The value would be show in our ephemeris aa 25°15' Genm-
ini, for we have the sign of Aries 30° long, the next sign of Tuurus
also 30° in length, absorbing together 60° of our 85°15:, leaving for
the sign following, Gemini, 25°15", In the ephemeris all the work is
done already; they are given,

Using Tables as shown in the ephemeris and checking any possible
relation between the longitudes of the ous plane the stoc

oupposing passes
gO huppon on September 26th, 1936. The we
08 coming into the market the moment this planet pass-
09 over the lst degree, over the Sth, the 17}th and the 25th degree.
This phenomenon ocours through every aign of the Zodiac, The geme is-
true ith papater it also applies to other planetg in 6 minor way, A
planet as » Moroury or Venus due to tacir fast motion reaoh
these degrees so often und soon that they cannot be wed us indiostors
singly, only in connection with seyeral hitting on one und the same day.
It means & change for example, when Meroury happens to be at 5° of u
sign, Vemus passes 17°30! of yome wign and the Sun may enter into «
new wign, thus crossing 0° and this all on one single day. In oaye mars
or vupiter happens to pags one of these critical degreoy alvo on that
ypeoifio day, you surely will have a change in the market. Vater changes
we & pow oyole. Therefore, when the movement. happ to be
rd un they “te ohange is due, we should more downward or,
when other indices allow it, we oan mace a gup upward, You whould have
ample facilities on hand to distinguish whioh hus to huppen, espeolally
when youKknow that the event is due on this day, In wen a case wutch
your method #1 if wn 83 move iu completed; wateh the volume ay we up-
proaoh the time for the onange; watoh all the factors of the other meth-
ods and combine thove indiouting a downmove and seperately those indioc-
ating & possible gup upward and weigh carefully. We slso nust know

that the various planets have yurious effeots in the different houses

--- PAGE 246 of 260 ---

[OCR] 70
and you have to search ol@ ohurty what effeot each planet actually did
heave in past oyolea upon the market, This is one reagon why I find the
movenents of the various connoaitiey much easier and surer than thove
of individual stocks. I have made myself onarts for practically every
commodity for thirty, forty years on a daily basis, yuon as wheat, cot-
ton, cottonseed of] and it is from oheoking buck the effeot of the plun-
ets that I arrive at what the effect should be now With stoeks, you
only have a handful that are older than twelve or fifteen Fearu. hey
have not gone through a series of major eyoles as yet and therefore you
have to rely on secondary factors, whioh, as you may well realize, are
not absolutely sufe, This brings me onoe more to the statement thet you
should concentrate on one or two single stocks or commodities, because
if you kmow only one and well, you ean make all the money you can uve
and then some, Later on i will bring another reason to warrant this
statement.

The other gables given in the ephemeris are not required for our
work, such a8 latitude, declination, Thorough testa on my part have
revealed that they do not ovntain such oritieal points,

This method operates, of course, in harmony with the others, Many
times you will be able to deteot amall, sharp movea that otherwise would
not be understood and that would cause uneayiness,

Explaining the simplest astrological methods you now will note that
we are drifting completely away from price and swing into time only.

We move uway from the doller. that ure in the market und measure Nature'g
ehunge of mina in the feelings of the humun trader,

Price changes become un "accident" while time shanges are the oon-
erete fuety, These ohanges are caused by planetary positions in the heav-
ens und are known and the direotion of the flow of the tide ean be easily
arrived at. The planetury positions ust only when a definite degree, a
definite minute anid second is renehed in the Zodise, Sugh events oan be
ebleulated to the second when thay Bust happen, not when they muy happen,
On such « day, hour, minute and second “ll the oyoles of our other meth-
ods will alao ugree and produce u bottom or a top. On that day you thm
Hust either buy or well, as the case muy be, ask no questions, expeot no
replies, The time of the cyole is up, tne public ehenges ity mind, ita
attitude towards stock» or commodities, u condition wien cannot be felt
physically, but figured. Is anything easier, safer? Bear in mind, thyt

gommon gambling

the marketa ure to the 1 & no ground, to a few an open
book, donsistL 2 rytnog pre-deatined amplitudes, not » maze of pn-
corthinty snl qudse wank, Bulidings, twenty stories high ure filled with
Stutisticlang, ing amslyses of stocky on strength of eurning und what
not to the greedy, by the hundred thougund, knowing us little us the
statistiolans themselves; on tne contrary, they resognize them us "Gianto
of Finunoe and Eeonomies"” and pay them for their "information" Immdredo
of dollars eush per yeur, whien, as far as the murker is concerned, iu
not Worth the paper on which it is printea,

Millions of people ure wucoessfull in their om line» of business,
They observe subeoneiowly the laws of Nature, The swings of business are
not so pronounced as those of the market, The same laws, of course, re-
mein underlying. Most businesses wapply neosevsities of life and as long
as we have people living, they must purchase woh necessities, The prof-
its in such enterprives are strictly limited by keen competition, Man,
ay a rule, chooves the easiest path to earn a Livelihood, Comparitively
few work out of this rut. These few, however, step right into enormous
difficulties, especially when entering the markets, They try to operate
in the market under the identical laws which they carried along from

their line of business, But they find that these laws will cause then to

--- PAGE 247 of 260 ---

[OCR] gradually, but surely, lose their money, 7%

Still, the stock market and commodity market afford the greatest
possibility of making money constantly without muon risk, without much
effott, provided the work 1s done exolusively within certain laws and
rules, however far fetched and unbdelievable they may sound to the aver-
age business man, shis is the seoret of the market. The operations of
the multitude are wrong and neocewsariby v0.Who else would carry the
costs, commissions, taxes, the fairy-like brokerage offices down-town?
The proof is seen in the persistent and steadily dribbling losses taken
by_the najority of investors, speculators, traders, bankers and others.
Only those who have within themselves vibrations attwmed to the market
responding thus automatically to tops and bottoms, or those who have
been able to use .»ature's luws, can measure with great exactness the
dates of change, she first group will never be able to forecast move-
nents, 2t sinply is a "something" thet causes them to buy or sell and
discover later that they were “right again", Their response is spnnt-
aneous, but does not go beyond the present.

When making comnitnents in a stock, by either buying or sd ling
it short, oreates immediately thereafter a sonewhat mixed feeling of
hope and fear within any man, supposing he bought a stook, He hopes
the merket will be favorable to the upside so that he can realize a
profit; at the sune time he feary that the market might not go up; in
fact, he dreads a dowmmove. To conquer this feeling is almost impossib-
le, at least with the millions who merely guess whion way "the oat
might jump", Bven witn all the methods explained herein, it is diffi-
cult to overcome this feeling, although it gradually will wear off,

At times, when an important move is in the making, which is
about the only time to visit a brokér's office, watch the orowd in
their psychology! This is more fun than a Broadway show} See these
creatures buck Nature's laws, respectively abiding to the same which
ever you may oall it, buying stooks or commodities right et the top
of a move, happy us cnilédren who just received a “gift", while on the
other hand, when Nature provides a bottom in the market, these same
crowds, sell the erstwhile previous bargains for the proverbial song,
far below actual values, fearing they might go lower, Nature is gener-
ous, but wicked withal, whe market shows these sides in the truest
fashion,

The law of critical degrees us given above refers to the mark-
et as a whole and, when following them in individual stocks, you are
apt to taxe severe losses, although you may ve right as to the trend
of the general market,
Therefore, I had to
ficulty. Here is the result:

. e e, we note that Venus
and Mers no other planet brings about the chances tnerein. xhese
two planets, as they cross 23°20, respeciively 12°16! of u sign, pro-
duce changes, she stock rhilip orris ety only on venus und the cheng-
es occur when venus passes 17°30' of any sign. Exch stock must be
searched over & period of tine cna the planets bringing aboui the cheng
es decoded,

In 1935, wheat made its inporteit tops und bottoms exclusively
the moment Licrs passed 12°16" of a sign, & rough sketoh will show it:

--- PAGE 248 of 260 ---

[OCR] AprwtT Wheat, 1935 : M4 ones

Lire 023

‘7
mun’
jr
Me avenge
dunlE 20 - ayn
a
At the same time, rhilip Morris (KOs) uoted us follows:
Venus at 17,30" aries gave a bottom on .arah 12th, 1935
.

Ls} Gemini dotton april 30th, 1935
ad s Cancer bottom mey 28th, 1935
Ly Lad Leo top June 24th, 1935
3 be} Vir, July 3lsut, 1935

Bo top

From August 18th, 1935 until September 30th, ¥Yenus moved retrograde
and its motion was very slow, accounting for the sidewise movenent
in that speoifie stook during thidperiod,

You may note in this example that in the sequence of the signs, we
mise the wign of Taurus, This sign does not bring about » change in
this stock, tou further note that we have three bottoms to begin with
and two tops to end with, Bothat some other planet is playing into thiy
utook that brings about the reversal not found quoted herein. You muy
plot the daily motion of this stock for 1935 und find that planet your-
self and the degree and minute that must be used,

TI found that Cottonseed o11 responds to the motion of Mercury-
Heptune, that the pricey of butter simply move up snd down according
to the aspeots of Jupiter-Venus and, sviue of thut, in perfect ellipses,

end of methoa #6

--- PAGE 249 of 260 ---

[OCR] Financial Forecast

for the month of
October

L.. month may be called the month of
digestion of stock values. The advance that
started on March 18th has run about 60% of
what it should do before the bull market is
ever. In order to complete the balance, it
must rest and digest and the planets say that
this is the month of rest.

This month should be practically all side-
wise movements with lower tendencies after
@ push-up the first 4 days of the month.
Then we should turn quietly down, gradually
sinking, even somewhat lower than the low
at the end of September, around the 23rd of
the month, To the traders this month will
look like distribution of the “wise insiders,”
in reality it is the last stage of buying by
those who know the market for the final run,
a similar run as we experienced from mid-
July 1929 to the top in September 1925. There
seerned to be no. end to new highs in stocks
at that time and there should seem to be no
end on the upside when we start to go after
October 23rd 1935. Keep this date well in
mind as the day of beginning... the begin-
ning of the end.

The first three days of October we should
move upward quite briskly but on the 4th
the market should make top for this month,
due to the square of Mars to Neptune and
the bad sextile of Saturn-Uranus. Rails and
Utilities should be most affected by these two
aspects and they should thus be sold on
strength during the 4th of October. It is
also advisable to let go of the industrials, in
as much as the entire month at least. until
the 23rd points down. The balance ‘of. the
aspects after the 4th and until October 23rd

are meaningless, just causing ripples up and.

down, more down than up, however. The
second sextile of Saturn-Uranus on. the 21st
of October will put, the final wash-out on
stocks and should cause selling of no mean
proportions for 2' days, until October, 23rd
when we shotild reach the bottom due to
good aspects developing the next day. The
climb. should: not be too rapid at the ‘begin-
ning, in ag: much as Saturn has pat | too. much
im aders call aeound

By
George Bayer

progressions for the month of October we
see the following aspects corroborating the
ephemeral positions of planets judged above.

Between the 4th and 6th of October 1935
we find two minor aspects to sensitive points
which are negative, as: well as a square of
the Moon to Neptune, calling for lower levels
in stocks. A small comeback is indicated for
the 11th, of little consequence however. But
—on the 22nd of October we find the moon
getting into sextile to the mid-Heaven, a fa-
vorable aspect, that should turn stocks up-
ward into next month: On the 23rd of the
month we find an important mutual aspect
coming when the progressed Ascendant gets
inte sextile to the new! planet Pluto, This is
a health aspect and should bring stocks back
into a healthy condition,

We also find aspects at these critical dates
to the fixed stars which corroborate the
statement or meaning bf the other planetary -
aspects.

Therefore stock traders should according to
the indications of the planeis’ aspects and as
interpreted by the writer sell stocks on
strength during the 4th of October and stay
out of the market for nearly 3 weeks {at
least those who do not get our semi-weekly
market analysis) and buy into stocks again
during weakness on October 23rd and ‘hold
these stocks into the following month, No-~
vember.

The general trend of the wheat market for
this month should be upward although dur-
ing the first half of the month quite some
irregularity should prevail, The most im~
portant day of the month should be October
25th or the 26th when; a top is looked: for.

Analysing the small] swing movements for
this month we find that the tollgwing . days
should produce:

October 4th a top.
October 8th. a. bottom.
Octokes :

--- PAGE 250 of 260 ---

[OCR] Financial Forecast

for November 1935

T.. month of October represented the
period of rest in the market. We had to digest
the big advance of values from March to Sep-
tember. During the last days of October the
market looked quite dreary and weak, in fact
several stocks were able to make new low
ground suddenly and for many traders this
indicated that we may be heading downward,

However, planetary constellations dictate a
big surprise to Wall Street and share values
for this month; aside of two minor reactions
this month should bring higher prices in stocks
from one day to the next and from the begin-
ning to the end of the month. Stocks should
get easily through the September and October
highs.

Early in June this year the writer predicted
in the weekly market advice 190 as the final
level for the Dow Jones averages. When we
start with the upmove this month, we are aim-
ing for this level. Of course it cannot be
reached in one month, that would be asking
too much of the market in way of perform-
ance, but we should get there in the not dis~
tant future. At any rate the advance in stocks
this month should closely resemble in propor-
tion the advance we had from last March to
May 16th but achieved in half that time.

The swings and aspects causing them should
be as follows during the month of November,
1935,

Carrying over from October_we should con-
tinue with the upmove until November 6th
near the close. Saturday, the\9th, Jupiter
moves into Sagittarius, wherein it rules. Jupi-
ter, the planet of financial expansion, feels at
home in this sign and should actually bring
about this big upswing. However, as it is
with humans that have been away for many
years (and Jupiter has not been in Sagitta-
rius since December 17, 1924), they do not feel
at home during the first few days—neither will
Jupiter—this new sensation, being at home,
should cause some stagnation for a day. By
November 10th Jupiter should be fully con-
scious of his old abode and the upmove should
be getting on the way in earngst, we should
step on the gas to make up for lost time and
move upward from one day to the next until

November 22nd, when Jupiter meets a parallel:

to the Sun, This should produce a temporary

By
George Bayer

top level with a small setback over the week-
end. The latest on Monday, November 25th,
we should start in once more on the upside
and keep up the good work without further
reaction into the next month.

For the longer swing traders our advice
would be to buy stocks when the Ist of No-~

_vember comes around and hold them straight
“through this month.

For intermediate traders we advise to buy
also the beginning of the month and sell out
temporarily on strength near the close of
Wednesday, the 6th, but without taking any
short position and replace the stocks during
periods of weakness on Saturday, November
9th. Then sell these once more on strength
during Friday, November 22nd, without go-
ing short and replace them once more during
weakness on November 25th, a Monday, and
hold them into December.

Traders may even go so far as to buy some
calls early this month, say during that ex-
pected weakness between the 6th and Sth,
thirty days’ calls, on active leading stocks and
nice profits should come forth. Such calls are
only good when a prolonged move in one di-
rection is indicated, any other time they are of
little value, at least not for the “buyers.”

The individual stocks as well as the group
that should particularly participate in
coming upmove are omitted here for |,
room, They may be found in o
weekly market advice.

A few words might be said, facts that | we
mention on and off to our clients who get our:
weekly market advice, in regards to trading :
methods.

(1) For long swing traders low priced stocks
of a strong group usually advance in percent- bg
age much more than higher priced stoaks. *
Thus Warner Bros. is better, for the longswing ;

than Loews at this time.

(2) For intermediate swing traders stocks :
priced between 30 to 70 are the best, those that :
have big turn-over and. fluctuate in eight ths |
or quarters. ; :

(3) Avoid stocks. that: sel
20, also those betw

--- PAGE 251 of 260 ---

[OCR] ward, and also in the area lying north ‘of the
Ohio River, as well as in much of the upper
Mississippi Valley, frequent showers or thaw-
ing weather should make CORN FIELDS too
soft. for operations and HUSKING will make
slaw progress. Elsewhere good advance will
be noted. under favorable: weather.conditions,
especially in the Greal Plains and Southwest,
where the weather should be unusually favor-
able. The mild, dry ‘weather in parts. of this
last decade make conditions excellent for
COTTON FIELD WORK, and picking the re-
maining cotton crop will make good. advance.
Practically all cotton will be picked in eastern.
Oklahoma, with. a little top crop still being
harvested in the lower Rio Grande Valley of
Texas.

Generally in this month continued absence
of sufficient rainfall in. the southern sections
should ‘make conditions unfavorable for pas-.
tures and they will be generally poor, Ranges
will continue mostly good to éxeellent. in the
great western grazing areas, but lack of ade-
quate moisture will be detrimental. in parts
of the Southwest, particularly in southeastern
New. Mexico and western Texas. *

Dry weather will be very favorable for
TRUCK in the Southeast, with poor progress.
Conditions in Louisiana should be excellent
for SUGAR CANE, with quality generally
high. TOBACCO should be casing well in
Wisconsin at the close: of the month, stripping
may be awaiting colder weather.

Financial Forecast

(Continued from page 59)
20 and the latter around 2814, ‘Thus they usu-
ally move between these prices. for ever so
long and even should they be able ‘to pierce
through on the. upside a little so. much stocks
are dumped. right there and then. that they
willingly back into their old range once more,

(4) Watch low priced stocks after they have
run 4%3 points, medium :priced stocks after
they have run 824. points and higher priced.
stocks. when. they have made.1742-points. This
level. reached: will invariably bring about: a
reaction. into the individual stocks unless a
“gap” is made at such point.

Thereforé-as not all-stocks make their highs
on the same. day, you can many times define
yourself when your stock makes its high, and
act accordingly, providing you watch our
dates. of change as calculated from planetary
movements.

Rule No. 4 is good in bull and. in bear mar~

“kets, while the other rules apply only-for bull
markets. In a bear market, one of them is
due next year; Jong swing traders should sell
thé vers: high priced stocks short. They will
come out of their “dizzy” heights” and keep

on going until the bear market is over, when.

they will sell again below values. Intermedi-
ate traders should: specially pick out stocks

that are able to break below the 100-Jevel, the:

130 Jevel and the 50 level, and switch out. of
them.as it goes on.into: others that do the same
thing. It is the writer's experierice that once
astock breaks the'100 level (ina bear market)

it will make weak attempts thereafter to re-’

gain it and the 80 level is easier made ‘than the
110 level once more:

The biggest resistance in stocks, upward us
well as downward, is encountered at the fol-
lowing ‘pricé levels: 22%, 3714, 5214, 1734,
8216, 9742, 135.

Therefore. whenever our forecast shows a
change-of trend. for a:certain day, say from a
down move to.an upmove, always pick ‘stocks
that are hitting any one:of these prices on big
volume. and at the same time as ‘the general
market looks very weak. On the other hand,
when a top is indicated in our forecast:and-you
see active stocks hitting on-these prices, then
they are just-at their. tops. At the lime of this:
writing, September 18,1985, we had on this
day DD-hitting 135, CTM. 8214, W 5214, there-
fore they were just then in-top country, ready
to react,

‘The price levels quoted ‘above for resistance
are actually astrological angles. They are se
strong that they act somewhat like a wall that
prevents. stocks from going further (up or
down).

The performance of wheat during November
should be somewhat similar to. stocks, We
are heading toward the 112-114 Jevel in ‘wheat
asa final top for ‘the. time being, which, how-
ever, is not. due as fat as we can calculate
during November. ‘The first 9 days of the
month should bring about a decline but: on
the 10th an upmove should start, that.incréasés
in. speed on the 23rd of November and in~
creases some more on the 26th of the month,
reaching. over into December. Therefore a
long position should be taken on any weak~
ness that-develops-early in November and this
long position held into December.

--- PAGE 252 of 260 ---

[OCR] GEOCOSMIC MAGAZINE, SPRING 1998

The Progressed Moon

in Declination ’y Karen Christino
|

Ithough the Sun's declination is always consistent The astrologer John Hansen had an out of bounds
A with its longitude — 0° Aries and 0° Libra are al Moon in his birth chart and became interested in as-
ways 0° in declination — the other planetary bod- _trology when the Moon again progressed out of
ies behave in a different manner. This is especially bounds. He studied the Moon’s progressions in decli-
true of the Moon. As a satellite of the Earth and not nation, and identified an earnings cycle. Hansen felt
the Sun, its apparent orbit is much more complex; that when the progressed Moon headed north in decli-
thus its declination cycle often differs considerably nation, the native was more likely to earn; when it tend-

from that in longitude.

The progressed Moon through the Fig ure 1: Patricia
signs of the zodiac is often used as a
basis for prediction. The transiting
Moon returns to the same place in the
zodiac every 27'/, days or so, begin-
ning a new progressed cycle every 27-
28 years. The lunation cycle phases
from new to full and back again in
about 29'/, days, making the pro-
gressed lunation cycle about 29-30
years long.

Yet there is even more variation in the
Moon's cycle in declination. It moves
from 0° to maximum north, maximum
south and back again in about 28 _ ‘

days. But the length of this cycle can | Spe wss%@ arcund thetime her
be as short as 24 or as long as 30 Moon's progressed declina-

Geo. Long Antiscia
5°7T01'09" 24°T7S9"
14°} 48°10" 15°12’
12°H 11 17°49"
11°50" 18°10"
24°09 sTMsr
2°9337' 27°23"
17°}534 12°26"
17°QVI19R 12°O41'
B°TL37R 2i°%=23°
4°TP10R 25°T 50"
24°71740" 5°20
12°06" 17°]][54"
§°2353’
o°TTL03"

Figure 1

4 Declinations =z

PL
©
B))
ig
i 9
is
y
%
Be
y
1¢
£2
j As
I Mc
1s

29°==57"

days or symbolic years. In addition, tion crossed the equator
the Moon will stay within bounds, in- ze katie pal ote
side the int of the ecliptic (approxi- but couldn't find a job
mately 23'/,° north and south of the right away, and worked
celestial equator) for an average of nine | temporary jobs for
years. Then for the next 10 years or about a year.

so the Moon will go out-of-bounds Moon reached maximum
(OOB) — beyond 231/,° north or south declination at age 23,
— for about two days every 10-14 and she has been em-
days. Kt Boehrer has related the | ployed ever since.

Moon out of bounds in natal charts to
alienation from the mother and even
some degree of mental, emotional or
physical abuse.’

Patricia
March 25, 1960 11:10 AM EST
73°W47' 40°N43'

page 15

--- PAGE 253 of 260 ---

[OCR] NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR GEOCOSMIC RESEARCH
ee

ed south, earning became more difficult. Hans-
en cited the example of a young man going to
school near the top part of his cycle. He was
offered a tremendous business opportunity,
but turned it down in order to complete his ed-
ucation. By the time he graduated, his pro-
gressed Moon had passed maximum north
and was tending south. He found a job, but
several years later was not making nearly as
much as the fellow who had taken the position
he was originally offered. The latter had al-
ready made an immense fortune and was pre-
sumably on the upswing!

Al H. Morrison often lectured on this topic, and
elaborated on the interpretation: On the up-
sweep, the individual is optimistic and thinks
well of himself and is encouraged and is
taught the work ethic: the idea that to be use-
ful you have to be making things which can be
sold. And employment tends to be fortunate
and is easily got. So we get out of school and
think we're going to go make our fortune, but
we're on the down cycle. In the down cycle,
people get cheated of their wages, underpaid,
subject to discrimination. If they get a raise it
only partly compensates for the rising inflation.
Their self-esteem suffers all the way down.
And this is universal for everybody, and it's a
long haul, these 14 years of it, and so we final-
ly get here at the bottom, miserable! Quite
miserable. Don't think well enough of our-
selves and so we hinder ourselves in the up-
ward climb by hanging onto these habits from
the long march.

And here the astrology can help the client. If
you can show the client that he’s at or near
the bottom of the cycle, on his way up, the en-
couragement that comes from this simple as-
tronomic fact is worth all the tea in China. It
may make the difference in getting this thing
organized right for the upsweep. The thing to
do on the down slope is to let a wealthy mate
support you while you do some non-employ-
ment thing: you keep house, raise children,
study something, get a research grant.?

To construct a graph of the Moon's declination
cycle, we use day-per-year progressions. The
top to bottom axis of the graph represents the
Moon's declination in degrees; left to right are
symbolic years. Let’s look at an example:
illustrations by Karen Christino Patricia was bom on March 25, 1960. (I’m not
going to be too particular about mathematical

page 16

--- PAGE 254 of 260 ---

[OCR] GEOCOSMIC MAGAZINE, SPRING 1998
ern een
a ea

accuracy here; we're just trying to get a gener-
al idea of how this cycle works.) If we turn to
the declination section of the ephemeris, we'll
see that on her birthday the Moon was at
7°S50’ at midnight®. This and all successive
points are plotted on the graph (see Figure 1),
and one can immediately see how the Moon
moves through its cycle. It crosses the equa-
tor (0°) at age two, reaches maximum north
declination at age 9, then heads south and
crosses the equator at age 16, and so on.

The Moon does describe our sense of security,
what makes us feel comfortable, and so should
have much to do with how we go about attain-
ing security throughout our lifetimes, and
whether financial security is a concern at a
particular point in time. The down sweep tends
to be a better time to hold onto a secure posi-
‘tion, to be self-employed, or to do creative or
free-lance work, when earnings are not as
steady and regular. On the upsweep, when the (Figure 6)
Moon climbs from maximum south to maxi-
mum north once again, one should find money
more easily, and be generally free from finan-
cial difficulties. People tend to take initiative
regarding work during this phase. Important fi-
nancial developments consistently occur when
the Moon is near maximum north or south and
also when it crosses the equator. We'll also
see that the cycle is not simply limited to earn-
ings: turning points can coincide with major
family or domestic changes as well. The orb of
aspect is a year or two from these turning
points in the declination cycle.

Patricia (Figure 1) got a summer job when she
was 18, around the time her Moon’s progres—

sed declination crossed the equator and turned <

south. She completed college at age 22, but (Fig ure 7)
couldn't find a job right away, and worked tem-
porary jobs for about a year. This is an inter-
esting case, as we see that the Moon reaches
maximum south declination at the age of 23!
Patricia was exactly in tune with her declina-
tion cycle, and she has worked full-time ever
since. She had a substantial increase in pay
at 35, near the top of her curve, and bought a
home at 37. Although she has quite a secure
position and will probably be able to hold onto
her job for the down slope, we can see that her
expenses increased and she assumed debt
through this major purchase as she headed
into her down slope.

page 17

--- PAGE 255 of 260 ---

[OCR] NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR GEOCOSMIC RESEARCH

a TEU daEEEnEE EINES ESE

Of course we cannot tell how great the earn-
ings will be! But we’d do well to consider the
natal placement of the Moon in the birth chart,
too. Patricia’s Moon is angular, sextile an an-
gular Satum. This suggests a need for securi-
ty, and she has worked consistently since she
completed school. Patricia’s declination cycle
just happens to coincide with her chronological
age: the upswing began right at a time when it
was likely she’d begin working. Yet some ex-
amples aren't as straightforward, and the cycle
can start at any point. Ron, for example, was
born with the Moon high in southerly declina-
tion (Figure 2). He certainly wouldn't be work-
ing at the age of 6, when his progressed Moon
crossed the equator!

(Figure 8)

(Figure 9)

47
4 A
61

(Figure 10)

He did, however, begin working part-time at
around the age of 15, and this is not too far
from the peak of his cycle. By the time Ron
was in high school, he worked regularly after
school. During college, he worked on week-
ends, and some summers he held down two
jobs. He got a well-paying full-time position as
a computer programmer right out of college at
the age of 22, which is close to the bottom
curve. Even though he earned while still on the
downward curve, we can see that he was em-
ployed in temporary or part-time positions dur-
ing much of the down sweep, and had a few
full-time jobs after college as he approached
maximum south.

The earnings cycle began its upward sweep for
Ron at about age 25. It is certainly true that he
consistently increased his income since that
time, has been engaged primarily in full-time
employment, and began his own business.

Once again, it’s important to consider the rest
of the native’s chart. Ron has Cancer on the
second house cusp, and his Moon is placed in
Capricom in the ninth. Here we have a strong
desire to earn, with a consistent need for finan-
cial security, which was evidenced at an early
age. The Moon's closest aspect is a trine to
Jupiter in Virgo in the fifth house: Ron simply
loves to work and take on more responsibility,
thus adding to his over-all income potential.
Perhaps he will feel secure enough to concen-
trate on his own business, purchase a home or
start a family when the progressed Moon be-
gins its downward sweep.

illustrations by Karen Christino

page 18

--- PAGE 256 of 260 ---

[OCR] Figure 3 is the earnings cycle for a fiction writ-
er. His natal Moon is closely square Uranus
and opposed to Neptune, so he doesn't have
the strong need for financial security shown in
our first two example charts. He graduated
from college at the age of 21, and worked part-
time for a few years while he concentrated on
his writing. From the age of 25-28, after his
progressed Moon crossed the equator on the
upward curve, he took a full-time job. This was
the only time the writer has been engaged in
full-time employment. He attended graduate
school from ages 28-31, and married at the
age of 30, near the top of his curve. He’s heid
a part-time job from 31 till the present (age 41)
while pursuing his writing. While he might cur-
rently be approaching the same dollar amount
he earned while on the upsweep, inflation has
_ devalued it and his rent has increased.

Figure 4 is the cycle for a systems analyst.
He got a much better job at a higher rate of
pay as well as a large office at age 29, when
the Moon’s upward swing crossed the equator.
At that time, he also ended a long-term live-in
relationship that wasn't moving forward. The
new lunation cycle and Saturn return both oc-
curred at this time for him as well. The analyst
has Sun square Satur in his birth chart; with-
out the progressed Moon's cycle in declina-
tion, we'd know he'd be in for some big chang-
es at age 29. But since we also know he’s on
the up slope, it’s clearer that his career would
surge ahead rather than stall.

Figure 5 is an administrative assistant who
worked since she graduated from high school
on the up slope. She held several jobs and
slowly increased her earnings while she at-
tended college part-time. At the age of 27,
nearing her peak, she accepted an excellent
position: more money, security and many ben-
efits such as tuition reimbursement, profit-shar-
ing, life, medical and dental insurance. She'll
probably be able to hold onto this secure posi-
tion for her down slope, as it seems to be rath-
er common for working people to find excellent
situations near the top.

The peak can represent a time of good earning
potential, but also a period of domestic
change. | have several examples in my files of
men who got divorced and set up new homes
at their peaks. Figure 6’s wife left him when he

GEOCOSMIC MAGAZINE, SPRING 1998

(Figure 11)

21

(Figure 12)

(Figure 13)

page 19

--- PAGE 257 of 260 ---

[OCR] NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR GEOCOSMIC RESEARCH

TTT

was 55. He met a new woman the next year
and bought a home with her at age 57 — all
during his peak. While he has a very well-pay-
ing and secure position, he will now have alimo-
ny payments and two households to support on
the down slope.

(Figure 14)

| tame 15)
(Figure 16)

RA AS

illustrations by Karen Christino

Figure 7 moved to a new apartment at age 56,
after his wife found he had been seeing another
woman. His divorce was final at age 57, when
he also bought a new home. This man contin-
ued the downward trend by selling his business
at 58. He plans on staying with the firm till age
62, shortly after his Moon crosses the equator,
when he'll retire or do consulting work.

While Figure 7's experience coincides with his
age, Figure 8 is a younger man who is also dis-
solving his assets on the down slope. The
earings cycle is more important than the per-
son's age! Figure 8 retired on disability at age
49, on his down slope and when the Moon
crossed the equator. At 50, he sold a house
he’d been renting out, began building a country
home and planned to sell his own residence.
This should be completed at around the age of
51.

While people don't necessarily lose their jobs,
there can be unfortunate circumstances on the
down slope as well, which will be detailed in the
natal chart. Figure 9 is a switchboard operator
who had few skills and little job security. Elec-
tronic advances did away with her position, and
she was laid off at age 53, on the down slope
and near 0°. She remained on unemployment
for the better part of a year, but at age 55 finally
found a new position — one which demands
physical labor, pays the minimum wage and
forces her to work over 50 hours a week in order
to make ends meet.

Figure 10 got married and had her first child at
age 21, right after her Moon crossed the equa-
tor on the down slope. From ages 28-37, with
the Moon tending north, the family lived abroad.
Even though their income was not outstanding,
the American dollar bought much overseas and
they enjoyed quite a high standard of living. In-
terestingly, this woman has Jupiter in Scorpio in
her second house, pointing toward partnership
income, and her first up slope coincided with
the time her husband was earning. Soon, how-
ever, the marriage showed signs of strain and
the woman was divorced, living alone and back

page 20

--- PAGE 258 of 260 ---

[OCR] at school by age 42 — completing these major
life changes shortly after the peak of her cycle.
She had a regular job with steady salary for
much of the subsequent down slope, but did
not enjoy the same standard of living as before,
and had more expenses created by her new
husband. At 55, at the bottom of her cycle,
she moved and was divorced a second time
shortly thereafter. Her mother died when the
woman was 57, indicating an important change
in her sense of security. Yet she was now on
the up slope once again, inherited part of her
mother's estate at age 58, and invested it. Al-
though she was fired from a job at 61, when
the Moon was at 0°, we must bear in mind her
Jupiter in Scorpio in the second: she earns
best through other means than simple eam-
ings. With a roommate her expenses are now
quite low, she’s eared through stock market
investments, and expects social security and a
pension soon.

Couples’ cycles can interact in any way. My
husband and | have both been on the down
slope together for many years, but we hope to
share the bounty when we're tending up to-
gether! Figure 17 is a woman who worked from
18-23 while her husband attended school —
we can see this was during the peak of her cy-
cle. She had her first child at age 23. Her
husband, three years older (Figure 12), com-
pleted his education and got a regular job at
the same time (his age 26). His progressed
Moon had just crossed the equator on the up
slope as hers moved down, so they handed-off
earnings and were able to benefit from each
other's high-earning times.

The Moon relates to domestic affairs and |
found that many women left work to start fami-
lies on the down slope. While there can be no
rules in astrology, this pattern seems very con-
sistent. Figure 13 got pregnant and married at
26, with the Moon at 0° on her down slope.
Figure 14 had her children born at ages 33 and
35, on her down slope. While she returned to
work, it was at a reduced schedule. Her boss
cut her time to one day a week when she was
37, and she was laid off at age 38. | suspect
she'll be able to spend even more time with her
family now.

Figure 15 was married at 40 and had her first
child at 41, just as she reached the peak in her

GEOCOSMIC MAGAZINE, SPRING 1998
oo

(Figure 17)

18
2 Age
\
29

(Figure 18)

28
35
42

(Figure 19)

page 21

--- PAGE 259 of 260 ---

[OCR] NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR GEOCOSMIC RESEARCH
5S a

declination cycle. She and her husband
moved into a new home at the same time, but
she did return to work for several months in or-
der to pay off some bills. Note that this is just
as she’s crossing over the top! She plans on
spending all her time staying home with the
baby before she turns 42.

(Figure 20)

Kx)
41
27
4

(Figure 21)

Figure 16 is a Catholic nun who left her order
to get married at the age of 38. This is the last
contact | had with her, but she had planned on
starting a family right away. Figure 17 had her
first child at 18 and chose to return to work at
30, coinciding rather accurately with her entire
downward slope. Figure 18 had children and
stayed at home with her family from ages 30-
36, again on the down slope. She was then
thinking of retuming to work. Since she was
still on the down slope, | advised her not to
tush things, to take classes or begin with tem-
porary, free-lance or part-time work.

Women often have questions about when to
start a family or return to work, and | now pri-
marily use the progressed Moon's cycle in
declination in order to answer these questions.
In men’s charts, the correlation is not nearly as
strong concerning children. Perhaps this is
because women respond more strongly to the
Moon; the progressed Moon could represent a
biological or hormonal cycle. Figure 19 is a
highly paid consultant. She was not married
but chose to adopt a child at age 39. Although
not her natural child, this was still on the down
slope. While her work schedule remained un-
interrupted, she incurred more expenses with
the baby, hired a nanny, and changed her
home life completely. This woman's natal
Moon is OOB in declination, and she now has
an unusual domestic situation.

(Figure 22)

Let's consider a woman in a similar circum-
stance, but one in which no child was involved.
This example shows someone leaving work to
care for a family member, but near the bottom
of her cycle and not on the down slope. Figure
20 landed a secure job at 29, which she held
through her peak and down slope. At 47, near
the bottom of her cycle, her mother died, her
sister was disabled and in a nursing home, and
her father had a stroke. She was forced to re-
turn home to care for her dad and could find no
work, actually stating that she “suffered almost
total financial ruin’ at the bottom of her cycle!

iustrations by Karen Christino

page 22

--- PAGE 260 of 260 ---

[OCR] GEOCOSMIC MAGAZINE, SPRING 1998

ess — Se —  ———  oa>qm——>-
pe EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEREEREEE EE!

She was able to find small jobs from age 49-
52, on the upturn again. While she considered
herself in debt, her father had bought her a
home which greatly increased her assets.

Like the top, the bottom or southernmost part
of the progressed declination cycle is extreme-
ly significant. Figure 20 had major domestic
and family changes at this time. Figure 21
worked two part-time jobs while going to col-
lege beginning at age 34 (remember: the decli-
nation cycle is more important than chronologi-
cal age!). At 38, near the bottom of her cycle,
she had large expenses due to a family mem-
ber’s legal problems. Yet at 39, as the pro-
gressed Moon began to turn north, she com-
pleted her degree and retained an excellent
full-time position. Figure 22 joined a large firm
at age 33, right near his bottom point; he has

’ remained there for over 30 years.

The OOB Moon in natal charts does represent
unusual circumstances; I've often found this
placement to coincide with afflictions in longi-
tude. For these people, when the Moon again
progresses OOB, it is likely to bring about
even greater than usual life changes. Yet one
can also be bom with the Moon within the
ecliptic limits and have it progress OOB.
These times, too, are apt to be quite signifi-
cant.

Figure 23 had a professional specialty, but was
primarily supported by her husband for many

(Figure 23)
cr)
42
48

years. However at the age of 47, she suddenly
landed the job of her dreams and began earn-
ing more than her husband! As her Moon had
progressed OOB at its bottom peak, these
were extraordinary life changes.

Figure 24 is a similar example. A young man,

who had some capital, began investing and made over
$2 million by age 28, near his bottom. Of course this
type of change does also imply great domestic and

family developments which can take much adjustment.

While not all people will earn such great amounts, it is
instructive to see the extreme impact of the Moon pro-
gressing OOB in these two examples.

The progressed Moon's cycle in declination is an es-
sential astrological cycle which deserves more study.
It is simple, easy to use, and adds information which
the natal chart does not provide.

(Figure 24)

21
x“
27

tT

Perhaps its greatest value is in prediction, as it can
help us anticipate our own life trends as well as those
of clients who need advice. «+

NOTES _

1. Boehrer, Kt, Declination, the Other Dimension, Fortunata
Press, El Paso, Texas, 1994.

2. This excerpt is transcribed from a taped lecture Morrison gave
to the Irish Astrological Association in 1981. My thanks to Mau-
rice McCann and the IAA for making it available.

3. The popular American Ephemeris does not contain listings of
declination. Raphael's and The Rosicrucian Ephemeris, as well
as most computer programs, do. Check them out before you buy!

page 23

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 549464777-Gann-Wheel.pdf
Total Pages: 10
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 10 ---

https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/704
setusfree@hotmail.com
Most cycle analysis is doing one thing. It is trying to find the turning point 
of EVERY intermediate swing. For instance:
Here are some quotes from W.D. Gann taken from his last book,
How to Make Profits in Commodities
"TIME TO STAY OUT OF THE MARKET: This is something important for everyone to 
know. You cannot make money by trading in the market every day or by getting in 
and out every day. There comes a time when you should stay out, WATCH and WAIT 
until you determine a DEFINITE CHANGE IN TREND. Long periods of rest and 
relaxation protect your health and help your judgment which will result in 
profits later." 
"THE BEST WAY TO TRADE: The most money is made by swing trading, or in the long 
pull trades, that is following a definite trend as long as the market trend is 
up or down, you must learn by rules to wait until the market gets out of a rut 
or a trading range. 
Wait for a definite indication that it is going higher or lower, before you 
take a position for a long pull trade. Always figure that YOU CAN BE WRONG and 
that the market could reverse. Therefore, follow your profits up with a STOP 
LOSS ORDER, or get out when you get a definite indication that the market has 
reached a turning point and that the trend is changing."
"TIME is the most important factor of all and not until sufficient time has 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/704 
setusfree@hotmail.com 
Most cycle analysis is doing one thing. It is trying to find the turning point 
of EVERY intermediate swing. For instance: 
Here are some quotes from W.D. Gann taken from his last book, 
How to Make Profits in Commodities 
"TIME TO STAY OUT OF THE MARKET: This is something important for everyone to 
know. You cannot make money by trading in the market every day or by getting in 
and out every day. There comes a time when you should stay out, WATCH and WAIT 
until you determine a DEFINITE CHANGE IN TREND. Long periods of rest and 
relaxation protect your health and help your judgment which will result in 
profits later." 
"THE BEST WAY TO TRADE: The most money is made by swing trading, or in the long 
pull trades, that is following a definite trend as long as the market trend is 
up or down, you must learn by rules to wait until the market gets out of a rut 
or a trading range. 
Wait for a definite indication that it is going higher or lower, before you 
take a position for a long pull trade. Always figure that YOU CAN BE WRONG and 
that the market could reverse. Therefore, follow your profits up with a STOP 
LOSS ORDER, or get out when you get a definite indication that the market has 
reached a turning point and that the trend is changing." 
"TIME is the most important factor of all and not until sufficient time has

--- PAGE 2 of 10 ---

expired does any big move start up or down. The TIME factor will overbalance 
both Space and Volume. When TIME is up, space movement will start and large 
volume will begin, either up or down. At the end of any important movement -- 
monthly, weekly or daily -- TIME must be allowed for accumulation or 
distribution or for buying and selling to be completed. 
"Never decide that the main trend has changed one way or the other without 
consulting the RESISTANCE LEVELS from TOP to BOTTOM and without considering the 
position of the market and the CYCLE of each individual Commodity. 
"Always consider whether the main TIME limit has run out or not before judging 
a reverse move. Do not fail to consider the indications on TIME, both from main 
TOPS and BOTTOMS." 
"...when the market has run out enough time, watch for the first time that the 
market rallies a greater percentage than the last or first percentage, then it 
indicates the trend is changing. 
"But remember that the most important thing is the TIME PERIOD and when time 
overbalances or shows a change in trend, it is much more important than a 
percentage of prices. For example, after a prolonged advance, if a commodity 
has never reacted more than two months or one month, the first time that it 
exceeds this time period, it indicates a change in trend. Apply the same rule 
on the DOWN side. The first time the time period exceeds the greatest time 
period on the way down, consider the trend has changed, at least temporarily." 
"When a decline in cents exceeds the greatest decline of a previous reaction by 
one or more cents, it is an indication of a change in trend." 
"When a campaign has run only 3 or 4 sections and the time period on a reaction 
exceeds the greatest time of a previous reaction, consider that the main trend 
expired does any big move start up or down. The TIME factor will overbalance 
both Space and Volume. When TIME is up, space movement will start and large 
volume will begin, either up or down. At the end of any important movement -- 
monthly, weekly or daily -- TIME must be allowed for accumulation or 
distribution or for buying and selling to be completed. 
"Never decide that the main trend has changed one way or the other without 
consulting the RESISTANCE LEVELS from TOP to BOTTOM and without considering the 
position of the market and the CYCLE of each individual Commodity. 
"Always consider whether the main TIME limit has run out or not before judging 
a reverse move. Do not fail to consider the indications on TIME, both from main 
TOPS and BOTTOMS." 
"...when the market has run out enough time, watch for the first time that the 
market rallies a greater percentage than the last or first percentage, then it 
indicates the trend is changing. 
"But remember that the most important thing is the TIME PERIOD and when time 
overbalances or shows a change in trend, it is much more important than a 
percentage of prices. For example, after a prolonged advance, if a commodity 
has never reacted more than two months or one month, the first time that it 
exceeds this time period, it indicates a change in trend. Apply the same rule 
on the DOWN side. The first time the time period exceeds the greatest time 
period on the way down, consider the trend has changed, at least temporarily." 
"When a decline in cents exceeds the greatest decline of a previous reaction by 
one or more cents, it is an indication of a change in trend." 
"When a campaign has run only 3 or 4 sections and the time period on a reaction 
exceeds the greatest time of a previous reaction, consider that the main trend

--- PAGE 3 of 10 ---

has changed." 
"When wheat or other commodities hold 2 to 6 weeks or 10 to 13 weeks in a 
narrow range, then cross tops or break bottoms of previous weeks, the trend has 
changed and you should go with it." 
What I have discovered is that EVERY trader is trying to find the WRONG thing 
in looking/searching for EVERY possible trade. I am right now, this week, going 
over a set of rules that point you right to the center point of the STORM! 
Making it a matter of TIME before you are ALWAYS winning. 
And I have to say that a few people are just now seeing what I have been saying 
for a long time at my site. Most that have come and gone are not going to see 
this relationship with TIME and price. I am showing why Gann showed EVERYONE a 
very simple cycle that is ALWAYS the main part of EVERY cycle in trading. Once 
you have access to this analysis, trading should never be hard at all. 
And what software am I using to reveal this cycle? FT/GT4:):):) 
If any of my students are in this forum, they will indeed tell everyone that I 
have opened many eyes over the past few days:):):) It has taken a while to do 
this, but now they see why TIME IS MORE IMPORTANT! 
This was the reason for introducing my new system. Most people do not 
understand that they have to find only one thing to make trading a fun thing to 
do. If you spend time trying to get every single swing, it is only going to 
hurt the thing that most people want to get out of trading in the first place. 
Just in the past few days has everyone began to see this one simple cycle. I 
still have things that I`m going to bring to my students. All has not been 
taught yet. This is just how long it takes to get everyone on the same page. 
Now, most people have come into my site and gone. But what Gann taught is very 
has changed." 
"When wheat or other commodities hold 2 to 6 weeks or 10 to 13 weeks in a 
narrow range, then cross tops or break bottoms of previous weeks, the trend has 
changed and you should go with it." 
What I have discovered is that EVERY trader is trying to find the WRONG thing 
in looking/searching for EVERY possible trade. I am right now, this week, going 
over a Set of rules that point you right to the center point of the STORM! 
Making it a matter of TIME before you are ALWAYS winning. 
And I have to say that a few people are just now seeing what I have been saying 
for a long time at my site. Most that have come and gone are not going to see 
this relationship with TIME and price. I am showing why Gann showed EVERYONE a 
very simple cycle that is ALWAYS the main part of EVERY cycle in trading. Once 
you have access to this analysis, trading should never be hard at all. 
And what software am I using to reveal this cycle? FT/GT4:):):) 
If any of my students are in this forum, they will indeed tell everyone that I 
have opened many eyes over the past few days:):):) It has taken a while to do 
this, but now they see why TIME IS MORE IMPORTANT! 
This was the reason for introducing my new system. Most people do not 
understand that they have to find only one thing to make trading a fun thing to 
do. If you spend time trying to get every single swing, it is only going to 
hurt the thing that most people want to get out of trading in the first place. 
Just in the past few days has everyone began to see this one simple cycle. I 
still have things that I'm going to bring to my students. All has not been 
taught yet. This is just how long it takes to get everyone on the same page. 
Now, most people have come into my site and gone. But what Gann taught is very

--- PAGE 4 of 10 ---

easy once you understand it was mostly about TIME. 
I have found that showing people pictures that show TIME is the key to everyone 
seeing the picture at all. Sound interesting? It is. Just think about that 
statement. It has taken a long time for most people to get away from looking at 
price. But, I`m telling you, once you stop looking at price, the trading will 
become very simple to do. 
I want to thank the people at Galactic Trader for making this GREAT software. I 
am now able to produce something that took sometimes up to 4 different software 
packages with pictures, to do what this software will do all in one:):):) 
Dave
The Gann Wheel Man
www.gannwheelman.com
You can read every book in town about Gann. But none will really explain Time! 
Why is that? Gann didn`t explain everything. He left it up to everyone to do 
their own research. Most people think that these mkts. have their own 
individual cycles. They don`t They all work from the same time aspects. Most 
think different planetary settings are needed when you do a time calc. You 
don`t need that. Most people think you need price to confirm anything. 
Gann statement: Time is more important. 
My statement: Time is priceless! Trade TIME not PRICE in order to win! I don't 
care about the price. If the time is right, the price will be right. 
Do most people know that the main reason everyone gets out of trades is because 
of the mkts. at those tops/bottoms keep whipping back and forth so much. And 
they never really know that it is a top/bottom when they get into it at that 
easy once you understand it was mostly about TIME. 
I have found that showing people pictures that show TIME is the key to everyone 
seeing the picture at all. Sound interesting? It is. Just think about that 
statement. It has taken a long time for most people to get away from looking at 
price. But, I’m telling you, once you stop looking at price, the trading will 
become very simple to do. 
I want to thank the people at Galactic Trader for making this GREAT software. I 
am now able to produce something that took sometimes up to 4 different software 
packages with pictures, to do what this software will do all in one:):):) 
Dave 
The Gann Wheel Man 
www.gannwheelman.com 
You can read every book in town about Gann. But none will really explain Time! 
Why is that? Gann didn't explain everything. He left it up to everyone to do 
their own research. Most people think that these mkts. have their own 
individual cycles. They don't They all work from the same time aspects. Most 
think different planetary settings are needed when you do a time calc. You 
don't need that. Most people think you need price to confirm anything. 
Gann statement: Time is more important. 
My statement: Time is priceless! Trade TIME not PRICE in order to win! I don't 
care about the price. If the time is right, the price will be right. 
Do most people know that the main reason everyone gets out of trades is because 
of the mkts. at those tops/bottoms keep whipping back and forth so much. And 
they never really know that it is a top/bottom when they get into it at that

--- PAGE 5 of 10 ---

time! Most people spend so much time trying to get price and do not know that 
is what the big hang up really is. If you are in any mkt. at the correct time 
you will never need a protective stop! And I can prove that. This is a very 
hard thing for most people to understand though. It is because most have not 
seen how these mkts. are all doing what is called a balancing act. But, most 
have not found this cycle balancer. I have:) Every single mkt. turns with the 
same exact cycle! Every single time! 
It's a mathematical sequence of events that once in motion, MUST complete the 
equation that it has begun. 
Read this below very slowly. It will tell you a story that you may not have 
thought of before.
I asked Mr. Gann: "What is the cause behind the time factor?"
He smiled and said: "It has taken me twenty years of exhaustive study to learn 
the cause that produces effects according to time. That is my secret and too 
valuable to be spread broadcast. Besides, the public is not yet ready for it."
"Water seeks its level," continued Mr. Gann. "You can force it higher with a 
pump, but when you stop pumping it requires no force to cause it to return to 
its former level. Stocks and Commodities are the same. They can be forced above 
their natural level of values to where lambs lose all fear, become charged with 
hope and buy at the top. Then stocks are permitted to sink to a level where 
hope gives way to despair and the most rampant bull becomes a bear and sells 
out at a loss. My discovery of the time-factor enables me to tell in advance 
when these extremes must, by the law of supply and demand, occur in stocks and 
commodities."
This is what I have found!!! Every single mkt. does it!!!
time! Most people spend so much time trying to get price and do not know that 
is what the big hang up really is. If you are in any mkt. at the correct time 
you will never need a protective stop! And I can prove that. This is a very 
hard thing for most people to understand though. It is because most have not 
seen how these mkts. are all doing what is called a balancing act. But, most 
have not found this cycle balancer. I have:) Every single mkt. turns with the 
same exact cycle! Every single time! 
It's a mathematical sequence of events that once in motion, MUST complete the 
equation that it has begun. 
Read this below very slowly. It will tell you a story that you may not have 
thought of before. 
I asked Mr. Gann: "What is the cause behind the time factor?" 
He smiled and said: "It has taken me twenty years of exhaustive study to learn 
the cause that produces effects according to time. That is my secret and too 
valuable to be spread broadcast. Besides, the public is not yet ready for it." 
"Water seeks its level," continued Mr. Gann. "You can force it higher with a 
pump, but when you stop pumping it requires no force to cause it to return to 
its former level. Stocks and Commodities are the same. They can be forced above 
their natural level of values to where lambs lose all fear, become charged with 
hope and buy at the top. Then stocks are permitted to sink to a level where 
hope gives way to despair and the most rampant bull becomes a bear and sells 
out at a loss. My discovery of the time-factor enables me to tell in advance 
when these extremes must, by the law of supply and demand, occur in stocks and 
commodities." 
This is what I have found!!! Every single mkt. does it!!!

--- PAGE 6 of 10 ---

Dave
What I have been saying is that there comes a point in time, where the mkt. has 
NO drawdown. This is the point I have found. And it works every single time:) 
Most everyone that has seen the Gann trading records, has seen the drawdown in 
his own trading. But, that is what drove me to discover the point at which 
there is never any! If anyone can do something great and yet does have a loss 
once in a while. Where is that point at which the loss never comes? That is the 
place everyone wants to be! This is why I have found this cycle that tells you 
where the mkt. will indeed never come back to! And it is all based on TIME:)
Dave
I have a site that is listed below. 
I am just now teaching this cycle to my students. What I teach is sort of 
backwards from what everyone else sees. Why? Because most of my focus is on 
TIME and not so much on price. As stated before, if you get in at the correct 
TIME, you don`t really need to be too worried about price. Why? Because these 
mkts. are moving away from these cycle points so fast. Most people that try to 
pick those tops/bottoms are going to get into those big skike moves that take 
them out. My cycle points are spikes that are going in my direction:) Gann had 
losses at top/bottom picking points. I have found that you don`t even have to 
come close to those points! 
I find it really interesting that with the way these mkts. work, I can take my 
system and lose 10 times in a row and still win big time with only 1 win:) That 
is how wild these mkts get once they get past this cycle point! 
Dave 
What I have been saying is that there comes a point in time, where the mkt. has 
NO drawdown. This is the point I have found. And it works every single time:) 
Most everyone that has seen the Gann trading records, has seen the drawdown in 
his own trading. But, that is what drove me to discover the point at which 
there is never any! If anyone can do something great and yet does have a loss 
once in a while. Where is that point at which the loss never comes? That is the 
place everyone wants to be! This is why I have found this cycle that tells you 
where the mkt. will indeed never come back to! And it is all based on TIME:) 
Dave 
I have a site that is listed below. 
I am just now teaching this cycle to my students. What I teach is sort of 
backwards from what everyone else sees. Why? Because most of my focus is on 
TIME and not so much on price. As stated before, if you get in at the correct 
TIME, you don't really need to be too worried about price. Why? Because these 
mkts. are moving away from these cycle points so fast. Most people that try to 
pick those tops/bottoms are going to get into those big skike moves that take 
them out. My cycle points are spikes that are going in my direction:) Gann had 
losses at top/bottom picking points. I have found that you don't even have to 
come close to those points! 
I find it really interesting that with the way these mkts. work, I can take my 
system and lose 10 times in a row and still win big time with only 1 win:) That 
is how wild these mkts get once they get past this cycle point!

--- PAGE 7 of 10 ---

Planet
Musical
note
Music 
Frec
Color
Numbe
r
Day
Elemen
t
Metal
Sign
Sun
C
Yellow
4,1
36=6x6
Sunday
Fire
Gold
Leo
Moon
F
Violet
7,2
81=9x9
Monday
Water
Silver
Cancer
Mars
G
Red
9
25=5x5
Tuesday
Fire
Iron
Aries/Sc
orpio
Mercury
E
Orange
5
64=8x8
Wednes
day
Air
Virgo/G
emini
Jupiter
B
Blue
3
16=4x4
Thursda
y
Air/Fire
Tin
Sagittari
us/Pices
Venus
A
Green
6
49=7x7
Friday
Earth/W
ater
Copper
Taurus/
Libra
Saturn
D
Indigo
8
9=3x3
Saturda
y
Earth/W
ater
Lead
Caprico
rn/Aqua
rius
Ascensio
n 2000
Note
Freq
Diff
Whole 
num
Diff
Note
Color
Planet
Numbe
r
DO
288
24
1
1.00
D
RED
Mars
RE
324
36
27
3
9/8
1.13
E
ORAN
GE
Mercury
MI
360
36
30
3
5/4
1.25
F
YELLO
W
Sun
FA
384
24
32
2
4/3
1.33
G
GREEN
Venus
SOL
432
48
36
4
3/2
1.50
A
BLUE
Jupiter
LA
480
48
40
4
5/3
1.67
B
INDIG
O
Saturn
TI
540
60
45
5
15/8
1.88
C
VIOLE
T
Moon
DO
576
36
48
3
2
2.00
D
RED
Mars
Vedic
Planet 
Musical | Music 
Color 
Numbe 
Day 
Elemen Metal 
Sign 
note 
Frec 
r 
t 
Sun 
C 
Yellow | 4,1 
36=6x6 | Sunday | Fire 
Gold 
Leo 
Moon 
F 
Violet 
7,2 
81=9x9 | Monday | Water 
Silver 
Cancer 
Mars 
|G 
Red 
9 
25=5x5 | Tuesday | Fire 
Iron 
PUES 
orpio 
Mercury | E 
Orange | 5 
64=8x8 
Wednes Air 
Virgo/G 
day 
emini 
Jupiter | B 
Blue 
| 3 
16=4x4 | Thurs | Aicpire | Tin 
Sagittart 
y 
us/Pices 
_ 
; 
Earth/W 
Taurus/ 
Venus 
A 
Green 
6 
49=7x7 | Friday 
ater 
Copper 
Libra 
Caprico 
Saturn | D 
Indigo | 8 
9=3x3 
salniecas | Paiste! Lead 
rm/Aqua 
y 
ater 
. rius 
Ascensio 
n 2000 
Note 
Freq 
Diff 
Whole 
Diff 
Note 
Color 
Planet 
Numbe 
num 
r 
DO 
288 
24 
1 
1.00 
D 
RED 
Mars 
RE 
324 
«136 
27 
3 
9/8 
13.0 
OE 
oes Mercury 
mM 
{360 _~—« 36 
30 
3 
5/4 
125 
|F 
Qo 
| Sun 
FA 
384 
24 
32 
2 
4/3 
1.33 
G 
GREEN | Venus 
SOL 
432 
48 
36 
4 
3/2 
1.50 
A 
BLUE _| Jupiter 
LA 
480 
48 
40 
4 
5/3 
1.67 
B 
on Saturn 
TI 
540 
60 
45 
5 
15/8 
1.88 
C 
YIOle Moon 
DO 
576 
36 
48 
3 
2 
2.00 
D 
RED 
Mars 
Vedic

--- PAGE 8 of 10 ---

Ernesto Laban
Interesting FACT: 
From continuous contract high date on 6/4, going 45^ clocwise... is 6/19. And 
6/19 is 1 trading day from the high on 6/22! Also 144^ clockwise from 6/4 high 
date is 327!!! ONLY 1 NUMBER OFF:) High price on 6/22 @ 326.70!!!:):):) Now, 
EVERYONE do your own homework. Because I have just taught EVERYONE how to use 
the Gann Wheel for FREE!!! 
And for more confluence/coincidence:) From 12/10 low date going 45^ counter-
clockwise, is 326 in price and 216^ clockwise is 7/17, 3 trading days before 
the 7/22 turn:)
Dave
Using the wheel is so simple:) Just take a look at the low date from continuous 
contract. 12/12/00 @ 696 in price. 22.5^ CLOCKWISE FROM THAT DATE OF 12/12 IS 
the price of 696, to within 1 number!!! Now, do the work from that date for the 
high. You will find all of this using these other TIMEDATES too... 7/9 window 
using 4/10 90CD and 1/22 120CD. Also, 7/12-15 window using these TIMEDATES... 
1/15 180CD, 3/14 120CD, 10/18 270CD and 2/20 144CD. How easy can this be:):):) 
Once again, do the work and you will succeed! TIMEDATES are to be used 2 
trading days prior and 3 trading days after the STATED dates. So, you can have 
many turns within one window. So, TRADE TIME, NOT PRICE! Trade the confirmation 
of the swings! 
I guess this is a second mkt. that has been nailed by the TIMEDATE window. 
Nailed by the 1/15 180CD TIMEDATE @ 45^ mark:) Both windows collided here for 
this mkt. Kind of a nice situation:) About 1/2 of a number off @ 1825 1/2:)
Ernesto Laban 
Interesting FACT: 
From continuous contract high date on 6/4, going 45% clocwise... is 6/19. And 
6/19 is | trading day from the high on 6/22! Also 144% clockwise from 6/4 high 
date is 327!!! ONLY 1 NUMBER OFF:) High price on 6/22 @ 326.70!!!:):):) Now, 
EVERYONE do your own homework. Because I have just taught EVERYONE how to use 
the Gann Wheel for FREE!!! 
And for more confluence/coincidence:) From 12/10 low date going 45% counter- 
clockwise, is 326 in price and 216’ clockwise is 7/17, 3 trading days before 
the 7/22 turn:) 
Dave 
Using the wheel is so simple:) Just take a look at the low date from continuous 
contract. 12/12/00 @ 696 in price. 22.5“ CLOCKWISE FROM THAT DATE OF 12/12 IS 
the price of 696, to within 1 number!!! Now, do the work from that date for the 
high. You will find all of this using these other TIMEDATES too... 7/9 window 
using 4/10 90CD and 1/22 120CD. Also, 7/12-15 window using these TIMEDATES... 
1/15 180CD, 3/14 120CD, 10/18 270CD and 2/20 144CD. How easy can this be:):):) 
Once again, do the work and you will succeed! TIMEDATES are to be used 2 
trading days prior and 3 trading days after the STATED dates. So, you can have 
many turns within one window. So, TRADE TIME, NOT PRICE! Trade the confirmation 
of the swings! 
I guess this is a second mkt. that has been nailed by the TIMEDATE window. 
Nailed by the 1/15 180CD TIMEDATE @ 45% mark:) Both windows collided here for 
this mkt. Kind of a nice situation:) About 1/2 of a number off @ 1825 1/2:)

--- PAGE 9 of 10 ---

This mkt. has another TIMEDATE slated for 7/19-22 window. 1/22 180CD, 90CD 4/23 
and 10/4 288CD. Remember... Trade TIME and not price. 
The search for TIME has been going on since Gann died. How does TIME really
work on any PRICE chart? It is very difficult to show, since most people are
only interested in what the top/bottom PRICE will be, in advance. But, think
about this one little tid bit...
What if you knew where the TIME WINDOW begins? You see, this is what is so
difficult for most people to understand. Once you know when the TIME WINDOW
begins, then you find the TIME PATTERN. Once the TIME PATTERN comes, PRICE is
soon to follow! What most people do NOT understand is that there are TIME
PATTERNS that are repeated over and over again. And the markets are ALL turning 
in these SAME TIME WINDOWS. Once you can DEFINE the actual trend, then the 
entry, of the direction, is very simple. Why? Because once you understand TIME, 
you not only know when the market is ready to go, you know how long it MUST also
take. By this, I mean, that in order for it to be a trend at all, it MUST go
for at least a certain length of TIME. Or it is not a trend at all!
So, by determing the true direction of the trend, according to TIME, you have
unlocked the great mystery of Gann. Always looking for the TIME PORTAL!
"When wheat or other commodities hold 2 to 6 weeks or 10 to 13 weeks in a 
narrow range, then cross tops or break bottoms of previous weeks, the trend has 
changed and you should go with it." 
And as you begin to see TIME, you just by COINCIDENCE, begin NAILING 
tops/bottims:)
Dave
This mkt. has another TIMEDATE slated for 7/19-22 window. 1/22 180CD, 90CD 4/23 
and 10/4 288CD. Remember... Trade TIME and not price. 
The search for TIME has been going on since Gann died. How does TIME really 
work on any PRICE chart? It is very difficult to show, since most people are 
only interested in what the top/bottom PRICE will be, in advance. But, think 
about this one little tid bit... 
What if you knew where the TIME WINDOW begins? You see, this is what is so 
difficult for most people to understand. Once you know when the TIME WINDOW 
begins, then you find the TIME PATTERN. Once the TIME PATTERN comes, PRICE is 
soon to follow! What most people do NOT understand is that there are TIME 
PATTERNS that are repeated over and over again. And the markets are ALL turning 
in these SAME TIME WINDOWS. Once you can DEFINE the actual trend, then the 
entry, of the direction, is very simple. Why? Because once you understand TIME, 
you not only know when the market is ready to go, you know how long it MUST also 
take. By this, I mean, that in order for it to be a trend at all, it MUST go 
for at least a certain length of TIME. Or it is not a trend at all! 
So, by determing the true direction of the trend, according to TIME, you have 
unlocked the great mystery of Gann. Always looking for the TIME PORTAL! 
"When wheat or other commodities hold 2 to 6 weeks or 10 to 13 weeks in a 
narrow range, then cross tops or break bottoms of previous weeks, the trend has 
changed and you should go with it." 
And as you begin to see TIME, you just by COINCIDENCE, begin NAILING 
tops/bottims:) 
Dave

--- PAGE 10 of 10 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 550659259-A-Moon-Beam-Thru-the-Tunnel-by-Petter-Ivar-Amundsen.pdf
Total Pages: 2
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 2 ---

A Moon Beam Thru the Tunnel
By Petter Ivar Amundsen
The  Tunnel Thru the Air  is mysterious and contains a valuable secret, clothed in v
eiled language.  These are Mr. Gann's own words in the foreword of the novel. I have had the good fortune to di
scover a part of this secret. The reason for writing this article is to display the depth of his writing and i
nspire others to investigate its mysteries.
Have you ever considered the title of the book?  The Tunnel Thru the Air or, Looki
ng Back from 1940 ? Strange, isn't it? The title will, however, give us two clues. The first is the slang spe
lling of the word through, the second is the year 1940. The last date in the book is in 1932. I was also puzzled by th
e fact that the subject of the title, the Tunnel, played merely a minor part in the plot. The story could have worked well without this artifact. There might just be a hidden meaning here somewhere...
Another curious fact is the frequent use of the number 69. Robert Gordon was bor
n on 6.9.1906. He occupied an office on 69 Wall St. and the Jonah  key  is on page 69. What if Mr. Gann was hinting at th
e Zodiacal sign Cancer, which is symbolized by this figure? When I consider the Jonah parallel, that the  Son of ma
n (would) be three days and three nights in the heart of the Earth , I cannot help thinking about the moon's disappe
arance during a lunation. It is invisible for three days and three nights. You could also say that it is  in
 the heart of the Earth  as it is placed directly between the Sun and the Earth, just as the voice of our heart re
ceives the light of our Lord. The Son of man, Jesus, was the perfect reflector of the light from above. Cancer
 is ruled by the Moon.
On page 177 we find the first encounter between Robert and an astrologer. Robert
 wants to know how and when he will meet his Marie, and Professor Joyful, as he is called, tells him that they will reunite in New York, since this city is ruled by Cancer and his radix Venus is in this sign. On page 248 there is the
 letter from the Canadian astrologer who points to the heavenly constellations at the time Marie disappeared. Venus w
as about to change signs from Cancer to Leo and was separating from, among others, Mars. In the last sentence of the letter, he said that a progressed conjunction between Venus and Mars would bring her back. There are several metho
ds for progressing a horoscope and progressing alone is not accurate enough to explain why they would meet at that date in 1932. What the statement does, is to throw some light on the association between Robert and Mars. The associati
on between Venus and Marie is already well established.
If you cast a horoscope for the time and place Marie wrote her farewell note to Robert ( June 5, 1927 - 3 a.m.), you will find that Venus and Mars is within orb of conjunction in the sign Cance
r. They would not share this sign until August 1932! There would be several conjunctions between the two planets, but none in Cancer as viewed 

--- PAGE 2 of 2 ---

from the Earth. But what about the incident in Paris, mentioned on page 241, whe
re Robert was sure he saw Marie? If you look up your Heliocentric Ephemeris you will find that  in the latter part of February 1929  there was a conjunction in Cancer! No wonder why the morning was  sunshiny !
I hope you see the pattern here, but one important question remains. Why did the
y reunite around 11 a.m. on August 30, 1932? Why that date and that time? Mr. Gann was careful to write 3
 a.m. on the farewell note. Could we not suspect that the timing of the reunion should be as accurate?
It is here we must confer the moon. If you cast another horoscope for the exact time and place of this final event and check out the position of the moon you will get the answer. The Moon is at t
he exact same spot it occupied when they were separated! This event is called a Lunar Return, just as any anniversar
y date is a Solar Return. Mr. Gann must have been doing some detailed planning to mold this plot together!
 But it does not stop here. Now it is time to look back to the title.
 The Tunnel Thru the Air.  Doesn't it strike you that there is a similarity between this title and  The Lunar Return ? It sure made me take a closer look. The only problem appeared to be that you'd n
eed an extra  r . Hey, wasn't there a subtitle? I grabbed my game of Scrabble and wrote the whole thing, subtitle, num
bers and all across our coffee-table. I tried several possibilities but nothing made sense. What about the number? May
be it could be 0419 and point to some important page? No, the book is  only  of 418 pages.
Suddenly it dawned on me. Numerology! The numbers are letters, just as letters a
re numbers! Using the Pythagorean method and replacing zero with the letter  o , it took only ten more minutes before I had t
he solution. The new title that emerged made sense, no letters were left over and it seemed I had the original i
dea for Mr. Gann to write the book! Why he would start with the mother, Amelia Gordon, and why he would end it as he
 did. Do you want to know the hidden title? Here you go:  From the Lunar Return, looking back to his mother. 

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 582126927-jenkinsUnEncrypted_compressed.pdf
Total Pages: 287
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 287 ---

~"==F"!"-==':;;:=:=";;;';;';=';=;;':;:-:=':::'::"':=-1'·.l < 
f'~.1" 
Michael S. Jenkins 
Complete Stock Market Trading 
And Forecasting Course 
Authentication No . 
. ~-----

--- PAGE 2 of 287 ---

Acknowledgments 
I wish to thank the following chart services for use of their charts in the various 
illustrations: 
Daily Graphs 
P.P. Box 66919 
Los Angles, CA 90066-0919 
Trendline 
Standard & Poor's 
25 Broadway, New York, N.r 10004 
MetaStock 
Equis International, Inc. 
3950 South 700 East 
Salt Lake City, DT 84107 
Copyright 1999 by Michael S. Jenkins

--- PAGE 3 of 287 ---

Table of Contents 
Introduction 
Basics 
Charts 
Reversal of Trend 
Volume 
Hourly Charts 
Time and Price Squared 
Angles 
Arcs 
Support & Resistance 
Gann Square of Nine 
Gann's Astrological Methods 
Time Cycles 
Mirror Image F oldbacks 
Waves 
Day Trading Theory and 
Practice 
Setups 
Advanced Applications 
Review 
............................................ 1 
............................................ 8 
.......................................... 11 
.......................................... 19 
.......................................... 24 
.......................................... 29 
.......................................... 38 
.......................................... 52 
.......................................... 80 
.......................................... 97 
........................................ 115 
........................................ 133 
........................................ 176 
........................................ 209 
........................................ 222 
........................................ 232 
........................................ 252 
........................................ 263 
........................................ 283

--- PAGE 4 of 287 ---

Introduction 
For the past several years many people who have read my two previous books; 
"Geometry of the Stock Market a Guide to Professional Trading for a Living" and 
"Chart Reading for Professional Traders", have written urftg me to either write a 
course of instructions, or to put on more seminars to teach I my methods of trading and 
stock market forecasting. This course of instruction is written to fulfill that need. By the 
time you finish reading this material, I expect you to have learned how to determine the 
true trend of any market, stock, or commodity on any world market, to forecast 
approximately how long a trend will persist and what the ultimate price targets are, and 
also to be able to successfully day trade the market. In short, this is a course of 
instruction on how to professionally take money out of the market and make a living 
doing so. 
What this course is not designed to do is to teach you the basics of what a stock is, 
or how to open a brokerage account, or any other such rudimentary, basic endeavors. 
There are books available in any library on those subjects. This material is for the person 
who wishes to make a career of professionally trading the market, and has put in 
sufficient time and effort to begin serious study. 
My perspective in this material is that of a technician and not a fundamentalist. 
Technical analysis is the study of the market with the underlying assumption that 
everything there is to know about the market or a stock is already reflected in the price 
and volume of the individual stock. No matter what the fundamentals are, or how they 
are changing, it takes buying and selling to move stock prices and without that, no 
investment will make any money. Even if a compfY has a hidden gold mine on its 
property, the stock won't go up until the insiders ~cretly start buying. The price action 
will inform the astute technician that a purchase i1 suitable, and the fundamentalist will 
~ften not get wind of the real news for months, 01 until the stock has had a tremendous 
nse.

--- PAGE 5 of 287 ---

This course, and my whole trading experience, has been developed around the 
principles of technical analysis, which forecast price trends and probabilities so that you 
can anticipate the big moves long before the fundamentals really develop. Of course, 
investing this way doesn't exclude using fundamental research in addition, but I only use 
that after the fact to better understand the true dynamics of the move. The price itself is 
the only real truth. If it goes up I want to buy, if it goes down I want to sell. 
The art of speculation has often been likened to gambling, but there is a real 
difference between the two. In gambling, the house sets the rules and those rules favor 
the house. In speculation, like trading stocks, you set the rules. You decide when to buy 
or sell, how much to buy or sell, how much leverage to use and what your stop out pOint 
will be. You also have technical tools at your disposal, which will be covered in this 
course, and which can increase the odds of your being right in the trade by as much as 80 
to 90%. This applies to both direction of the move and also the extent of the move. 
Speculation, then, is clearly different from gambling, and it can therefore be said that 
speculation can be a profitable profession, and you can professionally trade to make a 
living as in any business. 
Fundamentalists are those who invest by looking at the economic facts and profit 
and loss statements of investment issues. Ninety percent of all the players in the market 
are fundamentalists, being either bank trust departments, mutual funds, pensions funds or 
wealthy individuals. Wall Street caters exclusively to this crowd because of the huge 
amounts of commissions involved and so technical analysis is often given a bad name and 
derided as not being worthwhile. "Market Timers" are always being criticized, but the 
facts are that the fundamentalists simply don't know how to forecast the market and 
would rather say it's impossible to do than give business away. There are many wealthy 
individual investors who have had books written about their successes in the market, and 
they frequently say that they bought a good stock and held on without market timing. 
That's certainly true, but those books are rare since they don't spend time writing about 
the millions and millions of investors who bought and held onto the wrong stock and 
broke even, lost money, or got wiped out. In short it sounds good to see that Coca Cola 
always went up, but I can show you many a chart book from 10 to 20 years ago where 
Michael s. JenIdus Complete Stock Marbt Trading And Forecasting Course 
2

--- PAGE 6 of 287 ---

10% of the big winners have disappeared and are simply not in the current books any 
more. In 1966 the big name stocks were General Motors and AT&T. If you held onto 
those names you only got back to the 1966 levels again by the mid 1980's. You would 
have been much better off selling and going to the bank or buying something else. For 
me, the long tenn buy and hold idea only works if your stock is perpetually going up. It 
doesn't make any sense to hold onto an asset that is in a long term downtrend, no matter 
how good the name is. This course will infonn you, with 100% certainty, what the trend 
is and what you should do. Whether you are disciplined enough to do what the charts tell 
you is another matter. Some long term investors made out very well because they held 
on through thick and thin, while some traders jumped out but were afraid to jump back 
in even though the trend was up. In theory the trader who follows the rules or uses a 
mechanical system will always do better than the fundamental buy and hold investor if he 
follows the rules. 
I'm constantly being asked the question as to whether someone can master day 
trading and make a business out of it. I always answer in two ways. First, I can teach you 
how. That's simple. The information for detennining the trend and forecasting is readily 
available and not terribly difficult to learn. Second, I always say that trading is like 
dieting. Information on diets is plentiful and is a billion dollar a year business. But how 
many people go on a diet and keep the weight off! If you are disciplined enough to 
maintain a diet then you can easily become a successful stock trader. 
In the final analysis there are four main driving factors in the human condition. 
These are Money, Sex, Power, and Religion, and perhaps a fifth, Art. These are what 
motivate people. All of these motivators are often found in the U.S. Congress to greater 
or lesser degrees, but in the area of money, the brightest minds in the world are either on 
Wall Street or Las Vegas. Note however, that all these bright minded individuals aren't 
all rich. Wall Street routinely pays millions of dollars a year in salaries to individuals, but 
most of that is for sales, not trading skills. You see, the market is fueled by the emotions 
of greed and fear. People who are attracted to the market, are attracted out of an 
emotional base of greed, and they use their rational mind to justifY what they do. Since 
it's an emotional basis, however, they will always respond in an emotional way at 
Michael S. Jenkios Complete Stock Market Tmding And Forecasting Course 
3

--- PAGE 7 of 287 ---

precisely the wrong time and therefore lose money. This is why trading is like dieting. 
The principles in this course have been developed to strengthen your rational mind and 
mental skills to be able to control your emotions. You will be taught how to wait at 
emotional times to counter-trade the market against the emotional public and how to 
know when the trend is reversing, even though it looks emotionally scary. Technical 
analysis tools are objective measures that tell us without emotional involvement just what 
is to be expected. It has nothing to do with reading the newspaper or watching TV, 
thinking that news will make our stock go up or down. Perhaps for one day it might, but 
most of the time it's just random noise. In the cycle business we say If the news breaks 
with the cycle", which means it is the cycle that causes the news and not the other way 
around. This is simple enough to prove by just looking at the three or four big cycles that 
repeat all the time. These are 10 years, 20 years, 60 years and 100 years. The Kennedy-
Lincoln 100 year cycle is well known, as is the decennial 10 year pattern. But the 60 year 
cycle has always been the key and since ages past, when the days of the week were 
named for the seven visible planets, it was known that those seven planets returned 
altogether to the same positions again each 60 years, and so that cycle has always been 
observed, from time immemorial. Currently, in the late 90's, we are replaying the late 
1930's as to currencies, dictators, threats of world war and the rise of conservative 
governments and dictators (in a sense Churchill and Roosevelt were dictators relatively 
speaking). rn discuss cycles more in detail in the following chapters, but for now bear in 
mind that if cyclic influences exist, and the evidence is overwhelming that they do, then 
fundamental cycles will return and prices will return to past habits. Technical analysis of 
those past patterns will be of great value to the professional trader. 
Who Was W.D. Gaoo? 
Much of my perspective in this material comes from the great master w.n. Gann, 
who died in the mid '50's, but was a major influence in forecasting and trading since the 
tum of the century. Perhaps no one before or after has ever been able to forecast as 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Maricet Trading And Forecasting Course 
4

--- PAGE 8 of 287 ---

accurately or trade as well. While there are many Gann courses around, most are 
incomplete, as Gann wrote only a few that were not deliberately encrypted. Gann was a 
Mason and studied numerology, the planets, the Bible and other esoterica, and believed 
that the student must put in the time and effort and prove himself worthy before he could 
obtain the key. His thinking was similar to the Pythagorean school, which made new 
initiates prove themselves by taking a vow of absolute silence, without uttering a single 
word for a period of three years. In the Gann material there are deliberate "smoke 
screens" set up to distract the casual reader, but after years of study the more advanced 
student will find all kinds of esoteric and astrological truths hidden in his papers. I will 
try to reveal some of these methods in this course, but truthfully, many of these are 
simply too advanced for a course for the general public and I'll leave that for another 
time and place. Gann basically used angles, numbers and astrology to forecast and he 
developed dozens of number squares that were used for trading individual stocks and 
commodities. The Square of Nine is the most famous, and is used by as much as 20% of 
the pit in Chicago every day, so Gann still does exert a great influence. Most computer 
programs now routinely include Gann angles and cardinal cross numbers for the square 
of nine. I will mention these in the following chapters. You should at some point study 
Gann independently from my works, but be advised that most of the available courses 
and books in print tell only half of the story. I have been privileged to have spent nearly 
thirty years working in the market now, and over twenty years studying Gann, and over 
the years I have come to know well perhaps a dozen of the world's finest practitioner's of 
Gann's methods. I mention this only to warn you about the charlatans in the Gann 
business these days (and it is a real business!). The truth is more subtle and is not yet in 
print to my knowledge, although several recent books point in the right direction. My 
advice is to first master the basic principles of angles, cycles, numerology, charting, and 
then spend a good ten years on basic astrology and then you can attempt some of the 
Gann Bible interpretations as they relate to stock trading. Conversion of planetary 
longitudes into stock prices, and Biblical stories and age longevities converted into 
longitudes on the globe for commodity conditions are part of the key. There is much 
more, but none of that is needed to trade effectively and to make a living doing so. It's 
Michael S. Jeukins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
S

--- PAGE 9 of 287 ---

more of a spiritual discipline for later life. Suffice it to say Gann was a one of a kind 
genius who went "to the grave with his secrets, but his writings offer clues as to how 
precise forecasting can actually be. Much of my perspective in this work is the same as 
Gann's and I will try to explain much of it as we go along. One final interesting note is 
perhaps in order. Gann became famous in the 1920's and 1930's when he accurately 
forecasted the 1929 top almost to the day and the ensuing great depression. Looking 
back with what we know about his methods utilizing astrology, numbers and cycles, it's 
easy to replicate that forecast, but Gann said he did it by another means. He said he read 
about it in the Bible. He often remarked that the Bible was the greatest book ever written 
and he read it over and over again and urged others to do the same. Perhaps this was his 
religion speaking, but a recent N.Y. Times best seller "The Bible Code" perhaps provides 
an answer that shows Gann's true genius. The Bible Code is based on a fantastic and 
ingenious idea that God encrypted all knowledge and future events in the Bible. The 
original Hebrew version of the Old Testament that has been hand copied down through 
the ages, with not one letter altered, has been tested in a high-speed, super computer, 
with regards to trying to identifY letter sequences that might spell out words or 
sentences. Every letter in the Bible was strung out in a long sequence of hundreds of 
thousands ofletters and then the computer compared every 2nd, every 3rd, every 4th 
every 5th, etc. letter combinations until it found "crossword puzzle like" sequences of 
phrases and names. Now, any big book will sooner or later comes up with random 
sequences of famous names like J.F. Kennedy or the like, but significant, non-random 
sequences would prove that the Bible was some sort of encrypted code that could 
contain an infinite amount of data, if these sequences were laid out in multi-directions 
and different dimensions. Indeed the size of the Bible, when comparing every nth letter, 
would be enough to include every name of every person on the earth today and facts 
about what would happen to them. In the Bible code book, huge military computers 
were used because of the enormity of the task, and it was indeed found that when 100 
names and birth places of famous religious figures who came after the Bible was written 
were entered into the computer, all 100 came out in sequences that made complete 
reading sense as to their names and places of birth. Other names like Einstein being 
Michael s. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
6

--- PAGE 10 of 287 ---

"brainy" or the Kennedy assassination and the names ofRuby and Oswald were also 
discovered. The purpose ofthis paragraph, however, concerns the computer discovery of 
a phrase similar to "1929 stock market crash and Great Depression. II That's a paraphrase 
since I read the book briefly, long ago, but it stuck in my mind because ofsome study I 
was doing on Gann at the time. The essence ofthe Bible Code book is that it is only 
now, in the current generation, with high-speed, super computers that we can "crack" 
this Bible code and find the key to the coming purported, final millennium conflagration 
before it's too late. This was not available in prior ages since the technology wasn't 
developed. Only by having preserved the original Bible for four thousand years has this 
project been possible. Anyway, getting back to Gann, he didn't have access to a 
high-speed computer but he was a master numerologist and Mason. He also said he liked 
Isaiah the most ofall the Bible chapters and religious scholars have told me that Isaiah is 
a miniature Bible in and ofitself: mirroring each chapter in the Bible in its structure. My 
guess is that Gann found a master key in Isaiah that allowed him to interpret portions of 
text and come up with many ofhis prophetic forecasts. Perhaps a little Bible study could 
help us all. 
Midtael S. Jeokins Complete Stock Mruket Trading And Forecasting CoUllle 
7

--- PAGE 11 of 287 ---

Basics 
Trading, as opposed to investing, consists of buying and selling the same stock many 
times in an effort to capture more price fluctuations than just holding on for the long 
term. Many stocks appreciate 20 to 50% or more each year, but these same stocks can 
often swing through these ranges several times over the year. Just catching one or two 
complete swings will usually double the return ofthe trader over the simple buy and hold 
investor. Technical analysis tools like charts and trendlines combined with timing 
methods are what allow us to exploit these daily and weekly fluctuations to our 
betterment. But before we start using charts to examine price action, let's review the 
typical investment cycle and discover who the players are that make the market move. 
The big money in the market comes from institutional investors like pension funds 
and mutual funds, or bank trust departments. Some wealthy individuals affect some stock 
prices, but it usually takes the 10 million share institutional buyers to make stocks move. 
Without institutional support most stocks languish in long term flats with little significant 
price movement. In the past, economic cycle swings in the economy greatly affected 
companies' earnings and the price ofthese issues were quite volatile. Over the past ten to 
fifteen years however, the massive amounts ofmoney going into institutional coffers has 
created an environment where there are consistent buyers almost every day, regardless of 
fundamentals. Price earnings ratios have climbed from 12 to 14 times to over 30 times. 
Some "go-go" stocks have P.E. ratios of70 or more. This is more a sign ofpopularity 
and anticipated growth than actual economic prowess. Just before the Japanese bubble 
imploded in 1990, typical stocks had P.E. ratios of70 or as much as 125! Even today 
with that market still down 50% for the past eight years, the P.E.'s remain near 30 times. 
In these times of somewhat irrational fundamental valuations, technical analysis ofprice 
movement is even more important than ever before. There will come a day when these 
P.E.'s will start to shrink for years and years and people will buy into such declines 
believing that they are bargains. Only an objective analysis ofthe price action at that time 
will save investors and traders. Because the money flows into the large institutions have 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And FOI'eCaSting COur.Je 
8

--- PAGE 12 of 287 ---

been so big, the mutual funds industry has grown from some 700 funds in 1980 to over 
8,000 at present. Keeping in mind that the entire NYSE has only 3000 listed issues, you 
can see the effect on stock prices of the growth If these investing behemoths. For them 
the strategy has simply been buy and keep buyin, the fastest growing companies and 
never sell. Because they have had perpetual cashlinflows, they always bought dips each 
year as the market had corrections, and as a result always showed perfomtance figures 
I 
twice that of the general market appreciation dutjing the year. If the Dow Jones went up 
10% during the year, but had three dips of 5% atng the way, and they added on every 
dip, their average cost would be such that if the rarket closed at the high of the year 
(and it always did) their return would usually be ~0-30% or more. This was not due to 
any great investment philosophy or method, but imply the fact that if a market goes 
straight up and closes at the high each year and ou add money, you will out-perform 
that average. The shock will be great the first ye 
that the market closes at the low and 
the funds have added all year long. 
Another "strategy" the funds have used is 
e diversified portfolio idea of buying at 
least 200 individual issues that were growing at 
eat rates and to just keep buying. That 
way no one issue would account for more than 12 of a percent of the portfolio and even 
if that stock went to zero, the hit to the fund wo d only be 1/2 %. The result of this 
strategy is that when earning expectations disap oint, there is the wholesale dumping of 
entire investment positions of millions of shares 
d individual issues can and do drop 
50% or more in a single dayl This is insanity fro an investment point of view, since no 
earnings fluctuation should have that kind of effi 
,but nevertheless that is the current 
strategy and one must adapt a trading plan arou d such outcomes, like avoiding stocks 
about to release earnings, or "piling on" once th break starts. 
Institutional investors sell in an eyeblink on bad news, but they often buy quietly at 
limit prices over very great periods of time. To ccumulate a 10 million share position or 
more in a stock that trades 300,000 shares a da might take six months. The rule of 
thumb has been that for every institutional orde on the floor, that order will generate 3 
times that volume by others "front running" the rder and trying to jump in first. This is 
illegal, but it is a fact of life and most day trade make most of their incomes by jumping 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market 
. 
And Forecasting Course 
9

--- PAGE 13 of 287 ---

in front of big orders and making the institution pay up. The beauty of charts, however, 
is that these big orders show up in chart patterns as higher bottom patterns, where a level 
is held for several days and the volume increases, and then the stock moves up to another 
level slightly higher. The fund will often wait there for a few weeks and then if not 
satisfied will move up yet again. This is a sign of accumulation and is a sure sign of 
higher prices. As long as the price is creeping higher week after week, and each 
correction only goes back to a prior support level without breaking, that indicates the big 
money is not finished buying and is still there to catch the stock. A good strategy for day 
traders, is to identify such long term up trending patterns and buy into dips back to those 
known support levels. This can only be done through the use of a chart or log of stock 
prices over time, to record the various levels of price and volume transactions. 
A declining phase will show a similar pattern only in reverse. The funds will start 
selling a few thousand shares every day using a limit order, and after a few hours to days 
of not being able to sell, they lower the price to another slightly lower limit for a few 
days. These walk down stair steps show downtrends and are used to sell short and only 
cover if the stock regains a prior high. Individual institutional positions can usually affect 
a stock's price for months at a time. At the end of an economic cycle, as the economy 
turns down into a recession, numerous institutions need money as investors pull out, and 
the massive liquidations create a bear market that can last for two to five years at a time. 
Individual stocks often go down for five years and can frequently stay out of favor for 
ten years before coming back. Only charts will help you decide at what point in the cycle 
a given stock finds itself and whether it should be bought or sold. So we begin our 
course in trading stocks with the study of price patterns, as seen on charts, in order to 
quickly identify trends to decide whether the stock in question should be bought or sold. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
10

--- PAGE 14 of 287 ---

Charts 
There are many types of charts that traders have used over the years, such as line 
charts which connect the dots of hourly or daily closes, bar charts which show a vertical 
line to represent the open, high, low, and close for each time period, and point and 
figure charts, which only record reversals in trends, such as every $3 movement in a 
direction. These point and figure charts are very good at showing long tenn swings and 
trend but they do not have a time element, so they can often show potential, but it may 
lie donnant for months or years. Japanese candlesticks are more visual and attempt to 
show reversals and volume by visually changing the size and shape of the daily bar. 
Thicker bars can show more volume, reversal bars have "tails" pointing in up or down 
directions, and colored bars (black or white) show the current trend compared with the 
prior bar. These visual bars are probably the best ones to use, but require much study 
and most chart services in this country don't always support them. Logarithmic bar 
charts show percentage moves on the vertical price scale, while the standard bar chart 
shows unadjusted time and price scales. Each of the various chart styles have something 
to say and can be used, but to start in a simple manner and demonstrate the beauty of 
price and volume patterns, we will start with the standard bar chart in this course. Later 
you may want to switch to other charts, but the principles will always remain the same 
no matter what chart we use. Basically, we just need a price history that easily shows us 
whether or not the price is going up, and enables us to overlay some trendlines and time 
cycle counts. 
This first chart on the next page is a typical bar chart on a daily basis (one bar for 
each day) for an individual stock. The price is shown on the vertical scale and along the 
bottom are bars representing volume for each day and the time axis in days. We clearly 
see that this is an up trend, with few breaks to the downside that lasted more than a 
couple of days. Volume has been relatively consistent and low so that nothing appears to 
be happening here to change the present forces in play. Ifwe were bullish on the outlook 
for the market we would make up a list of such issues and buy them on pull backs to past 
support levels. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock M8l'iu!t Trading And Forecasting Course 
11

--- PAGE 15 of 287 ---

At right is a daily chart ofthe 
S&P 500 Index showing a 
downtrend into the October '98 
low and an uptrend coming out. If 
one were to draw parallel channels 
around the highs and lows you 
could clearly see the directions of 
the trends. The width ofthe daily 
.. 
u .... 
UII•••
....." 
u_.• 
£~ •• 
......
......
......-.. -..
_".iII
.......-..
".....
......-.. 
-
l.V1Iwn 
u,q·"
"'.... 
n'.,11 ....... 
I ..t.1I 
n .... 
u ••.• 
_R_.O 
1.:11•• 0 
lMIIo.'
,,,iII.II.....,.....,. 
.'.,­
... > •• 
bars is usually fairly constant, or 
when it's not, it usually is a multiple 
ofthe average move, so ifthe normal day's movement is 10 to 15 points, a big day would 
be twice that, or three times that amount. Later we'll learn about "measured moves", 
which are standard fluctuations that most patterns exhibit and are very useful for 
forecasting price targets. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
12

--- PAGE 16 of 287 ---

This 
next chart of 
the Dow 
Jones shows 
individual 
bars of 
about the 
same 
magnitude, 
but also note 
that the 
highs and 
lows ofeach 
_1. 
_WI H 
u·o:o.o 
....0 •• 
flOO .0 :::::::::::~:::::: ::::::l::::::::::::~:::::::: :~::~::::::::::::~::::::::::::1::::::::::::~::: :::::::::~::::::::::: :t::::::::::::~ :::::: 
UIO .• 
'&00 .0 
,oso ,0 
toOO •• 
••so .0
.,.0.0
,,,o.0
••oo~o 
."•• ,0' 
'700 •• ill:lli,jiri,illf:lllllllll[lll: !II
_UO.O
.'.0'.0 
'.'•.0
'100.0 
••s•.o 
,"00'.0 
,.;;,11111111 1;;, 
:::: 
.110.0 
'.00.0 
,tlO
_*.0' 
.•.• 
.no.o 
• lGG.O !r····••!·I.·.!fl FUI,I·I' •••••••••.•!••••.•..••!..••••.•• !.,••••••••••• :1~1
lose .• 
,GOO •• 
7'••.• 
7'00 •• 
7'50.0 
7'0'0,. 
l 
".0
",.•••.•
0 
7SS•• 0 
".00.0 11;1:'II!jlliil,i'! 
~!
7SIG.0 
".00.0 
" ••0 •• 
7"00' .• 
. ,., ..... ":. ,~ .........: ....... ,.••• : .••.....•. ": .... ~ ......,!, ......, ....: ............. :' ••..••• , ...! .......... , .~.".......... 
''''00'.0' 
7'••.• 
7100' .• 
:::::::::::~:::::: ~: ::::~:::: ::::::::l:::::::: :::~1::::::::::::1:::::::::: ::~:::: ~:~:::::1::::::::::::~ :::: :::::~: :i:::::::::: ::: ::::::
71.0 •• 
at.
I.. 
.. 
.. 
•• 
.. 
day don't greatly exceed the highs and lows ofsurrounding days except during times of 
"runaway" momentum moves. Most bars overlap the prior day's high or low by slight 
amounts and then fall back into the trading range. The most common error in all of 
trading comes from the tendency to buy or sell the "breakouts" thinking a big move is 
underway only to see it fail and later fall back into the middle ofthe range. Many day 
trading mechanical systems use this idea to scalp trades going against the move in the 
first 30 minutes of each day ifthere's a small overlap without much momentum. The 
ideal buying strategy is to wait to buy at a pullback point near the prior day's low, plus or 
minus a small percent and buy with a stop. Ninety percent ofthe time ifyou are 
disciplined enough to do this you will have a very good trade going for the next day. The 
emotional difficulty here is that usually the market opens up overlapping the prior day's 
high slightly and gradually trades down to the low ofthe day, which is the perfect buy 
point, but traders are so emotionally afraid that the trend is reversing, that they won't 
make the trade at the end ofthe day and cany it overnight. When that happens the buyer 
oflast resort is ofcourse the specialist, and he buys cheap stock and marks it up the next 
morning. Sometimes the best trades are ones we put in to buy with stop orders, or limit 
orders at a set price detennined the night before, in the calmness oflooking over the 
Michael S. 1enkins Complete Stock Market Tnu:Iing And Forecasting Coun;e 
13

--- PAGE 17 of 287 ---

charts at the end ofthe trading day. Ifthe charts truly don't lie, then those objective 
decisions made with careful calculations and protective stops, are the best ones and our 
emotions shouldn't override those decisions. Here again it's like dieting. Ifyou're afraid 
to trade because you might lose money, you're trading with the emotion offear and 
similarly you probably only buyout ofgreed to make money. This is not the way to beat 
an emotionally driven creature like the stock market. We must buy when we feel we 
must sell, and vice versa. We just can't be stupid and buy into a panic free fall or 
avalanche ofsell orders on a bad earnings report. Interpreting the bar chart can help us 
determine the trend and the support and resistance levels we should trade near. 
Let's start with the simple trend. The trend is up ifthe low ofthe daily bar on our 
chart makes a higher bottom than the previous low on the preceding bar. This trend can 
extend for long periods oftime depending on how it is defined on a longer term chart. 
For instance, an hourly bar that's higher than a prior hour is up for that hour, but says 
nothing about the day or week's trend. Whereas a weekly bar on a chart composed of 5 
days activity compressed into a single bar, will show trends lasting a week to three 
weeks at a minimum. When a market reverses it is similar to a series ofChinese nested 
boxes that fit one within the other. In other words, a turn on a 15 minute chart as it 
extends, usually turns the hourly chart, and after a few hours the hourly chart turns the 
daily chart and finally, after a few days the daily chart can turn the weekly chart. Big 
moves come when all these time frames cluster tightly together and all turn 
simultaneously. Oftentimes that's just after a very narrow flat with little price movement. 
~~,... I
I II 
1/l1=~~  
Traders love to jump aboard a flat breakout, since a big move comes very fast. 
Micl!ael S. 1enkins CooJplele StocIc Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
14

--- PAGE 18 of 287 ---

Basic Trends 
.. 
Ihl liji-
11111' 
111_-
II 1IIItiit · ==~,.. 
1 
III 
11 
3
JI llllill SwiIt,J~wiIh""'lDpIl.2,.h..d"""IowwA.a.C 
C 
Trends usually persist or else they wouldn't be ofhelp in trading. The persistence of 
trend is usually at least three bars at a minimum. This is the rule ofthree, or three day 
rule, or three week trend, or three month trend. Ifthe trend lasts more than three 
consecutive bars it will usually go a Fibonacci number ofbars such as 3, 5, 8, 13,21,34, 
55 etc. (The Fibonacci ratio 1.618 is achieved by an additive series ofadding each 
number to its neighbor to get the next and is found in all aspects ofnature. Here we have 
1 and 1 to get 2,2 plus 1 to get 3,3 plus 2 to get 5, 5 plus 3 to get 8. etc.). On hourly 
charts a five hour advance is usually a sign ofan uptrend, and we then look at 8 hours, 
13 hours and 21 hours for reversal points. 
The bar chart examples shown above show simple trends and we need to know 
more about the volume traded each day and some long term perspective, but before we 
can do that, we need to examine reversals in trend and define just what that is. Since 
trends manifest to greater or lesser degrees, such as hourly, daily, weekly, and monthly, 
we will often get reversals ofa minor nature, that will not change the main trend. In the 
final analysis, this confusion ofwhich trend is the dominant one is the key that separates 
good traders from everyone else. For instance, over the past decade each time the Dow 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stook Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
1:5

--- PAGE 19 of 287 ---

Jones averages dropped a few hundred points, it looked like the long term trend had 
turned down. Certainly the hourly, daily and even weekly bar charts showed lower 
bottoms and lower tops, but the yearly chart never broke a low from the prior bar (year) 
and neither did the quarterly chart (3 months to a bar). In most cases the monthly bar 
chart only broke the low ofone bar and not three months, to show a persistent trend that 
would define a long term decline. For traders, the trade turned bearish with the hourly 
chart breakdown and the daily chart breakdown, but when the bottom was made the 
hourly chart and daily turned up before the monthly turned down again. Long term 
investors, like mutual funds never sold, since the breaks were so short lived, but it was 
scary to hold positions through 200 to 500 point Dow Jones drops ifyou didn't really 
know what the trend was. At the end ofthis lesson you will know. 
The uptrend is defined as a bar chart that makes higher bottoms, or the lows on 
each bar are higher than the prior bar's low price. Note that this definition says nothing 
about the highs on the bars. Uptrends are caused by accumulation by big institutions, 
who buy at the bid side ofthe market on limit orders and don't chase prices. As long as 
the bid side holds and goes up it shows unsatisfied buyers in competition with each 
other, so they keep raising prices to higher levels creating the higher bottoms pattern. 
Day traders and the inexperienced public often chase stocks up on good news, creating 
the high tick on the daily bar chart and are forced out at a loss as soon as the price drifts 
down. Usually the low that they sell out at is slightly higher than the last low and the 
perfect place to buy, not sell This points out the emotionalism ofthe market. When 
people buyout ofgreed, they chase stocks and buy high to later sell low. We want to 
buy low to sell high. That's impossible ifyou buy when everyone else is doing so and the 
stock looks good. We want to make note ofthe prior day's low, or better yet the prior 
week's low, and be prepared to buy at that point with a trailing sell stop ifwe're wrong. 
To summarize again, the rising trend shows a series ofhigher bottoms on bars on each of 
the various time periods traded. 
The downtrend needs two criteria to validate the trend. It needs a series oflower 
lows or bottoms, and a series oflower tops or highs. Each low should be lower than the 
prior low and each high should also be lower than the preceding high. Note that this is a 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Marlc.et Trading And Forecasting Course 
16

--- PAGE 20 of 287 ---

pattern. The most important idea in all of the discussion about trend is that trends are 
defined by patterns. In up trends it's simply higher bottoms. In downtrends it's both lower 
highs and lower lows. 
Keep in mind the process of selling or liquidation. Investors are in competition with 
each other to sell out because of bad news, or need for funds, and if the volume doesn't 
support the selling they must lower their prices to get out. The only buyers are usually 
bargain hunters, who only show up at new lows for a scalp, or the buyers are shorts who 
are covering at a profit. This creates the pattern oflower lows and lower tops, as people 
continuously lower their expectations. 
Basic Uptrend: 
Trend is up. Bottoms are all higher or at the same level. 
Small breakdown in October during crash, but lows are quickly regained 
which is a classic sign of another buy signal. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
17

--- PAGE 21 of 287 ---

Trend is down. 
Series of lower 
tops and lower 
bottoms. Only 
one small 
exception of 
lower tops in 
entire move and 
that is quickly 
erased. Also 
note that this is 
an identical time 
period to chart 
before, 
demonstrating 
two very 
different 
investments. 
These two examples of trend clearly demonstrate the importance of trading each 
stock individually and not as part of a general market theme. Usually stocks will follow 
the main trend of the market averages, but there are many exceptions, and if you just 
held onto this declining example you could have lost a lot of money waiting for it to tum 
around. Trends persist, and I have seen past leaders tum sickly and go continuously 
down for three to five years before attempting a comeback. You must therefore be 
objective and trade the patterns and not use guesses. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
18

--- PAGE 22 of 287 ---

Reversal of Trend  
We know that an uptrend is a series ofhigher bottoms and a downtrend is a series of 
both lower tops and lower bottoms, but what indicates a reversal? In its simplest form a 
reversal on a bar chart occurs when the extreme bar is identified as being the prior bar 
and the opposite extreme ofthat bar is exceeded on the next bar. In other words, in an 
uptrend you find the high day bar where the high was the highest price for the move and 
you note the low ofthat bar, not the high. Most technicians will tell you to watch the 
high, but that's not what happens in real time. At the high, the reversal is made when 
exhaustion sets in, and since the big buyers are always on the bid side ofthe market, the 
penetration ofthe low is the sign that the buyers are gone. Sometimes the penetration of 
that high bar low won't occur for several days and the price will be in a narrow range, 
neither taking out the high nor the low, but once the low is taken out, the sell signal is 
given. 
The reversal of a downtrend occurs the same way. You identify the low bar ofthe 
move and note the high of that bar. When that high is subsequently exceeded, the trend 
turns up and you can go long with a stop at the low ofthe move, which would negate 
the buy signal ifit went back down to that low. Again, keep in mind that the sellers use 
Reversal Bar Signal Pattern 
II 
Buy Signal 
B~mpti 
generated at
II 
1I-\--fo41==---
this point
HiP oflow bar 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
19

--- PAGE 23 of 287 ---

limits and are working the offer side of the bar, so that when that is exceeded the sellers 
are gone, at least for the time being. The illustration above shows examples of both 
signals. 
These are simple buy and sell reversals and if taken indiscriminately will lead to swift 
and sure bankruptcy. What is needed is some judgment as to how long a trend has been 
in effect and whether a normal measured move in some direction has occurred, which 
usually ends the move. Trendlines breaking, combined with time cycle counts coming to 
an end, are usually helpful. High volume is usually indicative of reversals and price 
reversal momentum is also often a key. In big moves like the endings of bull markets, the 
first few weeks can often reverse the entire gains of the past year or two. But no matter 
what happens, the first sign will be a reversal of an individual bar and that should be 
noted for reversals on all next larger size time scales, like hourly turning to daily, weekly, 
etc. The next page shows two examples of several simple buy / sell signals. Not all of 
them are shown, but as you can see, the ones that came at the end of extended moves 
were good for several points at a minimum and often went weeks before reversing out. 
I've used the term "measured move" before and we'll see examples of it later on, but 
the concept is basically that over a given time period like six months to three years, the 
players in the market are the same. Over long time periods their composition may vary, 
but for the intermediate term they exhibit the same buy and sell habits and their reactions 
to extremes don't change very much. Ifwe examine a chart over a few months to a 
couple of years and note the extremes, we will notice that each stock or commodity has 
an extreme bullish and an extreme bearish phase and these can be "measured" with a 
ruler, compass, or even our fingers on the chart. The idea is simply that once a trading 
move has reached this usual extreme, a reversal in trend is expected. Looking for 
reversal bars can be beneficial if they fall at one of these normal extremes or "measured 
moves" (see page 28). 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And FOI'eC3Sting Course 
20

--- PAGE 24 of 287 ---

Simple buy and sell signals 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
21

--- PAGE 25 of 287 ---

Tests of prior buy or sell reversal bars usually come at the point the original signal 
was generated. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
22

--- PAGE 26 of 287 ---

An adjunct to the simple buy I sell reversal bar idea is that once the signal has been 
generated and you later get a counter trend movement back to where the signal was 
given, that movement will usually fail exactly at the point of the original signal. 
Ninety-nine percent of all other books on technical analysis erroneously tell you to 
expect a test of the high or low and that's what all traders watch for. It hardly ever 
happens, however, as these charts indicate (page 22). The move will stop before the 
extreme, at the place where the buy or sell signal was given, In a long tenn trend that is 
one way to validate that the long tenn trend is still operative. For example, if you get a 
buy signal and six weeks later on a correction you go back down to the lit est " area and 
then generate another buy signal, the second signal confirms the first as being long tenn 
valid. It's quite possible to see a string of such signals stretched over a year just pulling 
back to prior signals and confirming their initial ruling. 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
23

--- PAGE 27 of 287 ---

. Volume 
No basic discussion of chart patterns is complete without examining volume 
patterns. Unfortunately, little is written about volume, although it is one of the most 
important considerations to the trader. No significant move can ever take place without 
some heavy volume being done, but in the middle of most moves, volume dries up. It is 
imperative therefore, that in examining charts that you notice where the very heavy early 
accumulation took place. Big volume starts as the move is just beginning, because the 
big institutions take large positions and it may last several months to a year or more 
before it subsides. After that the stock may rise another year or two before seeing big 
volume again, this time on the sell side, as they start to get out. In general, it is said that 
volume is positively correlated, or that the heavy volume goes with the direction of the 
primary move and especially in the bull move, the volume goes up as the stock goes up. 
This is the only time that volume is really bullish - when the move is just getting started. 
Most of the time volume is negative, in that when it shows up, buying and selling are 
matched and a top is made. A decline then usually results until the volume dries up to the 
lowest reading of the move and then when it increases, the buyers are back and the 
advance starts again. Some technicians use a simple general market sell signal tied to 
three day or five day moving averages of the volume. After a high volume reading, as 
soon as the moving average turns down, the market tops out. 
You must pay attention to the pattern of volume over a several week period. During 
that period you will note the normal spikes of volume that are usually found within a day 
or two of all the swing highs and lows. If an advance has been underway for three 
weeks, and then the biggest volume of the month is recorded, it is a certain sign ofa 
coming correction. Likewise, when you are day trading and buying into a three day dip, 
you are likely to see increasing volume with little price movement. That usually means 
the seller is getting "cleaned up" and the stock is about to reverse. I once learned this 
from an old professional, who pointed out to me a stock that was doing about 6 million 
shares that day when the average volume was 1.2 million. I was bearish and the stock 
was down 50 cents on the day on that heavy volume, but he correctly inquired of me 
why it wasn't down a lot more if the volume was really selling and not scale buying. Of 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
24

--- PAGE 28 of 287 ---

course he was right and the stock reversed up on the close and quickly ran about $10 
over the next three days. I now make it a point to match my predicted lows and highs 
with exceptional volume. Cycles also bring in the volume and in the general market you 
111+-+--+"'-­
.,H--Jf-:£~ 
Houston Indu8 CHOU) 
l TO S67II5. PIlI .01 Oom 296.I 
. 
eeo·uIIty Ndg _T.,... 
564ln11i1u11on1 Hok:I13l3 MIl SIn (44.3%) 
:tt~l===~~~~~~~==~zc====~~~~~~~~ 
:...~.: :~~:~; :", . ~<~::~:HJ~J~.r }·:iIT·~it:nIiLU. i:l:. 1' 
Michael S. Jenkins Coolplcl.e Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
25

--- PAGE 29 of 287 ---

Dell Computer Corp (DELL) 
"lTD $512.0 Pfd No Com 1274. 
DvIpImlr IBM ~lIbIe PC', 
908 institutions Hold 558.2 MIl Shrs (43.8%) 
70 
... ! ... : 
60 
40 
! 
i. 
30 
20 
Michael S. Jenkins Complete Stock Market Trading And Forecasting Course 
26

--- PAGE 30 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 31 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 32 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 33 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 34 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 35 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 36 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 37 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 38 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 39 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 40 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 41 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 42 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 43 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 44 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 45 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 46 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 47 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 48 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 49 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 50 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 51 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 52 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 53 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 54 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 55 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 56 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 57 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 58 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 59 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 60 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 61 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 62 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 63 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 64 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 65 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 66 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 67 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 68 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 69 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 70 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 71 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 72 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 73 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 74 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 75 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 76 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 77 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 78 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 79 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 80 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 81 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 82 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 83 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 84 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 85 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 86 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 87 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 88 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 89 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 90 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 91 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 92 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 93 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 94 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 95 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 96 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 97 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 98 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 99 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 100 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 101 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 102 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 103 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 104 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 105 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 106 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 107 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 108 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 109 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 110 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 111 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 112 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 113 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 114 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 115 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 116 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 117 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 118 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 119 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 120 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 121 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 122 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 123 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 124 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 125 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 126 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 127 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 128 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 129 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 130 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 131 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 132 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 133 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 134 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 135 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 136 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 137 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 138 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 139 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 140 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 141 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 142 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 143 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 144 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 145 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 146 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 147 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 148 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 149 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 150 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 151 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 152 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 153 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 154 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 155 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 156 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 157 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 158 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 159 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 160 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 161 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 162 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 163 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 164 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 165 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 166 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 167 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 168 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 169 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 170 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 171 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 172 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 173 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 174 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 175 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 176 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 177 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 178 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 179 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 180 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 181 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 182 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 183 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 184 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 185 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 186 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 187 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 188 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 189 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 190 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 191 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 192 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 193 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 194 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 195 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 196 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 197 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 198 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 199 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 200 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 201 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 202 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 203 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 204 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 205 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 206 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 207 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 208 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 209 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 210 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 211 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 212 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 213 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 214 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 215 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 216 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 217 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 218 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 219 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 220 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 221 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 222 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 223 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 224 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 225 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 226 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 227 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 228 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 229 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 230 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 231 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 232 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 233 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 234 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 235 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 236 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 237 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 238 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 239 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 240 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 241 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 242 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 243 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 244 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 245 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 246 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 247 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 248 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 249 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 250 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 251 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 252 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 253 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 254 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 255 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 256 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 257 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 258 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 259 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 260 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 261 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 262 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 263 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 264 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 265 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 266 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 267 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 268 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 269 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 270 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 271 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 272 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 273 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 274 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 275 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 276 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 277 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 278 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 279 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 280 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 281 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 282 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 283 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 284 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 285 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 286 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 287 of 287 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 623199454-1953-Mathematical-Formula-for-Market-Predictions.pdf
Total Pages: 9
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 9 ---

W.D. Gann MATHEMATICAL FORMULA FOR MARKET PREDICTIONS
THE MASTER MATHEMATICAL PRICE 
TIME AND TREND CALCULATION
This chart is made on transparent plastic so that you can place it over 
daily, weekly, or monthly high or low chart and see at a glance the position on the 
time and place based on the geometrical angles. It is designed to give QUICK 
ACCURATE EASY CALCULATIONS: SAVE TIME AND PREVENT ERRORS.
The square of 12 is always important in working out time periods because 
there are 12 month in a year. The square of 144 is the GREAT SQUARE and 
works  better  than  any  others  square  both  for  TIME  AND  PRICE  because  it 
contains all of the squares from 1 to 144. This chart is divided up into sections of 
9 both for time and price because 9 is the highest digit. Nine spaces on the daily 
chart equals 9 days, 9 weeks or 9 month in time periods and 9 equals 9c on 
grains, 9 points on stocks or 90 points on cotton on the daily high and low chart.
One column in the square of 144 contains 144. This would equal $144 on 
grain, 144 points on stocks or using a scale of 10 points to 1/8 inch it will equal 
1140 points on cotton.
MASTER 144 SQUARE CONTAINS 324 square inched and each square inch 
contains 64 units which gives 20,736. This is 20,736 weeks or months and the 
proportionate  parts  of  this  are  used  for  the  measurement  of  time  and  price 
because this is the great cycle.
THE GREAT CYCLE OF THE SQUARE OF 144.
The time period of this square is 20,736 days, weeks or months. One- 
half(1/2) is 10,368 days. One-fourth(1/4) is 5,184 days. One-eighth(1/8) is 2,592 
days. One-sixteenth(1/16) is 1,296 days. One-thirty-second(1/32) is 648 days 
and the one-sixty-four(1/64) is 324 calendar or market days. 1/128 is 162 days 
and 1/256 is 81 days or the square of 9.
WEEKLY TIME PERIODS.
THE GREAT CYCLE in weeks is 2962 and 2 days and 1/2 of this period is 
1481 weeks and 1 day. One-fourth is 740 weeks. One-eighth 370 weeks and 2
days, One-sixteenth is 185 weeks, 1 day. One-thirty-second is 92 weeks, 4 
days and 1/64 is 41 weeks, 2 days.
MONTHLY TIME PERIODS.
THE GREAT CYCLE in month is 681 months and 23 days. One-half of this 
is 28 years, 9 months and 23 days. One-fourth is 14 years, 5 month and 8 days. 
One-eighth is 7 years, 2 1/2 months. One-sixteenth is 43 months and days. The 
weekly  and  monthly  time  periods  from  major  high  and low  and  be  checked 
determine the future trend.
THE MASTER NUMBERS:
The Master Numbers are 3, 5, 7, 9 and 12. The No. 9 and its multiple is the 
most important because 9 digits added together equal 45. The next number of 
greatest importance is 7, the number mentioned more times in the Bible than any 
other number. There are 7 days in the week and 7 calendar days as well as 5 
market days, and their multiples should be carried on your Daily, Weekly and

--- PAGE 2 of 9 ---

Monthly Charts. The square of 7 is 49, which is a very important time period. The 
2nd square of 7 is 98 and the third square of 7 is 147 and the fourth square of 7 
is 196 and 196 is also the square of 14. The next number in importance is No. 5 
which is the balancing number between 1 and 9. The square of 5 is 25 and the 
second square of 5 is 50 which is just I over the square of 7 making 49 to 50 very 
important for a change in trend. There squares of 5 is 75 and 5 squares of 5 is 
100 and 100 is the square of 10, which is also important for changes.
The No. 3 is mentioned in the Bible next to the No. 7 and 3 is important 
because 3 x 3 equals 9, the square of 3, and it is the first old number that forms 
a square greatest that itself. Three must be used in every way possible, 3 x 7 
equals 21, 3 x 5 equals 15, 3 x 9 equals 27 and 3 x 12 equals 36, very important 
because it is the square of 6. The No. 12 is also spoken of in the Bible many times 
and is of great importance. Jesus selected 12 disciples. There are 12 month in the 
year, and 12 signs of the Zodiac. The important 12's in the square of 144 are 12, 
24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 108, 120, 132 and 144. These are all important for 
both time and price in days, weeks and months.
Referring to the No. 9, 7 x 9 is 63 and is of great importance because the 
square of 8 is 64, therefore, around 63 to 64 is very important to watch the 
change in trend.  7 x 12 is 84 and this is of very great importance and the 
number next to this is 90, which is 10 x 9 and 90 is 1/4 of the circle, which is 
very important for time and price changes. Next in importance is 9 x 12 which is 
108 of 3/4 of 144.
The  importance  of  the  circle  of  360  deg.  must  not  be  overlooked  in 
connection with the square of 144 because the proportionate parts of the circle 
agree with the parts of 144. 2 1/2 times 144 equals 360 and 1 1/4 times 144 
equals 180, 1/2 of the circle, and 90 is 5/8 of 144. 9 is 1/16 of 144, 18 is 1/8, 
27 is 3/8, 36 is 1/4, 45 is 5/16 and always very important for time and price 
changes and for resistance levels. 48 is 1/3 of 144 and 54 is 3/8 and 63 is 7/16, 
72 is 1/2 of 144, 81 the square of 9, is 9/16 of 144 and 90 is 5/8, 99 is 11/16, 
108 is 3/4, 117 is 13/16, and 126 is 7/8 and 135 is 15/16 of 144. These are the 
most important in the square of 12 and should be watched closely when time 
periods in days, week or months reach these points on the Master Calculator. 
Remember that you should always watch the Daily Chart for the first indication 
of the change in trend and at the same time look at the position on the Weekly 
Chart on 7 days time periods which is next in importance. The Monthly Chart is 
of the greatest importance for changes in the main trend.
THE IMPORTANCE OF 3 AND 5.
The movement in PRICE and TIME whether on a Daily, Weekly or Monthly 
chart has three important points, the PRICE, the TIME AND VOLUME of sales, 
the PITCH or TREND which is the geometrical angle which show whether time is 
influencing and driving prices up or down on slow angle or an acute fast moving 
angle.  There  are  also  four  factors  that  influence  prices,  PRICE,  TIME  AND 
VOLUME AND VELOCITY. Time is the most important factor because when time 
is up volume increases and the velocity of speed of the market increases and the 
PITCH or TREND on the angles moves up faster or down faster.
There are three other important points to consider on a Daily, Weekly or 
Monthly High and Low Chart. There are LOW PRICE, the HIGHEST PRICE and 
the RANGE 1/2 between the high and low.

--- PAGE 3 of 9 ---

FIVE FACTORS FOR TIME AND PRICE
There are high, low, halfway point, opening and closing prices. The trend is 
indicated by closing price, especially when the market very active. If the prices 
closes above the half way point or near the high, the trend is up. If it closes below 
the half way point or near the low, the selling is greater than the buying and the 
trend is down, at list temporarily. In connection with the Master Time and Trend 
Calculator apply all of the rules with the Master Time Factor and geometric 
angles.
STRONGEST POINT FOR TIME AND PRICE RESISTANCE.
In using the Master Square of 144, the strongest points are 1/4, 1/3, 2/3, 
3/8, 1/2, 5/8, 3/4, 7/8 and the complete square of 144.
The points where the most angle cross are the strongest for resistance in 
PRICE and TIME.
TRIAGLE POINTS.
The triagle points or where the green angles cross the most important: 
These are 72, 144, 36, 48, 96, 108 and of couse 72, and at the end of the square 
144 at the tom and the bottom.
SQUARES IN THE SQUARE OF 144.
These squares where the angles cross are of great importance for time and 
price resistance. These are 36, 45, 54, 63, 72, 90, 108, and the top and the 
bottom. When the price is at a point equal 36 and the time period in days, weeks 
or month is at 36, TIME and PRICE SQUARE and it is important to watch for 
change in trend. With the square of 144 you can get any square from 1 to 144. 
Suppose you want to get the square of 72: you move across to 72 for time and if 
price is at 72 moving up on the chart, PRICE and TIME have balanced, or square 
out, and we at the 45 degree angle and at the half way point the Master Price, 
Time and Trend Calculator.
WHERE TO WATCH FOR CHANGE IN TREND
Most changes in trend occur when the TIME PERIODS are at one-half of 
the square of 144 and at the end of square or at the 1/3, 2/3, 1/4, and 3/4 
points in the square of 144; you must always watch the square in time of the 
HIGHEST PRICE and the MINOR HIGHS and LOWS, also the square of time of 
the LOWEST PRICE and the SECOND OR THIRD higher bottom, and also the 
time required to square the Range and where this square works out of Master 
Square of 144.
EXAMPLE: The lowest price that wheat ever sold was 28c per bushel, In 
March 1852, therefore every 28 month would square the lowest price. The highest 
price that wheat over sold was in May 11, 1917 when the May Option sold at 
325, therefore it would require 325 month to square the highest price. The lowest 
price that the May option ever sold was 44c, therefore it would require 44 
month in time to square the low price. The range between 44 and 325 is 281c 
which would require 281 months, 281 weeks or 281 days to square the range. You 
would look on the Master Chart and see that 2 squares of 144 equals 288, 
therefore, you would watch for change in trend between 281 and 288 or near 
the end of the second square of 144. 7 x 44, the extreme low, equals 308, 
therefore, 6 1/2 times 44 would equal 286, which is within two points of the end 
of the square of 144 or

--- PAGE 4 of 9 ---

the end   of the second square making 286 an important time period to watch for 
a change in trend. In squaring the range 325, the highest price for May wheat 
would be 2 squares of 144 and 17 over, therefore, when the time reached 36 
days, weeks or months in the Master Square of 144 you can see that resistance 
would be met because moving up the time period of 136 you can see that the 45 
deg. angle moving down from 72, which is the INNER SQUARE and the line 
drawn across from 36 on the price scale crosses at 36. In this way you can see 
that  the  Master  Chart  would  indicate  a  resistance  in  time  and  price 
corresponding with the square of the highest price, the lowest price, and the 
Range. All other time periods from a high price, low price, or the range of any 
commodity or of the stock should be worked out in this same way.
You will succeed in using the Master Mathematical Price, Time and Trend 
Calculator by going over the charts and laying the calculator over them and 
working out past history. In this way you will learn just how it works and prove to 
yourself the great value of the Master Calculator.
HOURLY TIME PERIODS
When Markets are very active and making a wide range in price, it is 
important to keep an hourly High and Low Chart will give the first change in 
trend.
There are 24 hours in a day, therefore, 6 days are required to pass throught 
144 and a total of 864 days to pass the square of 144.
At  the  present  time,  all  exchanges  are  open  5  days  a  week  with  the 
exception of holidays and most of them are open 5 hours each day, therefore, it 
will require 28 days and 4 hours to pass throughtt 144 and the rate of 5 hours 
per day and 5 days per week.
GREAT YEARLY TIME CYCLE:
To pass throughtt the square of 144, which equals 20,736, it requires 56 
years,  9  months  and  23  days,  which  is  very  important  time  cycle.  Next  in 
importance is 1/2 of this time period which is 28 years, 5 months and 8 days and 
1/4 which is 14 years, 2 months and 19 days. The 14 year cycle is always very 
important because it is 2 seven year periods. 14 years equal 168 months and 169 
months is the square of 13 making it very important for a change in trend and 
this is also an important time resistance point.
1/8 of the Great Cycle is 7 years, 1 month and 10 days and is quite 
important. 1/16 is 42 months and 20 days, 1/32 is 32 months and 30 days. This 
is an important time period because is is close to 22 1/2 months which is 1/16 of 
the circle of 360 degrees.
NINE SPACES AND NINE TIME PERIODS:
The chart being divided up into 9 sections gives all the squares of 9 for 
price resistance of time resistance which, as referred to above is 9c on the Daily 
Chart for grains and the same for Weekly and Monthly Charts: that is, 1c to each 
1/8  inch.  For  different  commodities,  different  scales  are  used.  (See  Special 
Instructions for the different commodities.)
The Chart being divided up into 9 sections gives a 16 the squares of 9 for 
rpice resistance or time resistance which, as referred to above, is 90 points of the

--- PAGE 5 of 9 ---

Daily Chart, 135 on the Weekly Chart, and 270 on the Monthly and 2880 on the 
20 points scale and 9 spaces equal 180 points.
The angles in red are all drawn on the squares of 9. The Inner Square of 
450 is drawn from 72 because 72 is 1/2 of 144. These angles come out at 72, 144
and 72.
The straight lines are in green and are 1/3 of the square of 144 in 
price or
time.
GREEN ANGLES:
The green angles are the angles of 2 x 1 which up two spaces of 2 points in 
one period of the time. The other angle below the 450 angle is the angle of 1 x 2 
which requires 2 time periods to move up 1 space or 1c per bushel on grains for 
each time period of 1 day, week or 1 month. These angles move down from the 
top at the rate of 2 points or 2 spaces per time periods or at the rate of 1/2 space, 
1/2 point or 1/2c per time period. The distance that the green angles and the red 
angles are apart determines how far prices can advance or decline.
When the market enters the INNER SQUARE it is important for a change in 
trend and time angles and Position in the square tell at the time it entered 
whether the price is going up or down. Also when price breaks below a 45° on the 
INNER SQUARE it show weakness in proportion to the time from high or low 
price.
WHEN TO START A NEW SQUARE:
When the time period of the Daily, Weekly or Monthly Charts has moved 
144 you begin a new square. But to get the position you simply move the Master 
Square over to 144 and place it over the chart to get the position in the next 
square.
STRONGEST AND WEAKEST POINTS:
Where the greatest number of angles cross or bisect each other in the 
square of 144 are the points of greatest resistance, such as where the 25 and 2 x 
1 angles cross each other.
Study and practice on past action of the market and you will soon learn 
how to determine the trend very quickly by using the Master Chart.
HOW TO USE  THE MASTER SQUARE OF 144:
Follow all rules on angles as given in the Master Forecasting course.
Place this chart at the bottom or 0 on the Daily, Weekly or Monthly Chart 
or place the bottom of the chart on the low price or SQUARE of the HIGH PRICE. 
The LOW PRICE, and the square of the RANGE and show where time and price 
balances.
When you figure the halfway point of the extreme high or the halfway point 
of the range, place either the top or the bottom of the chart on the halfway point 
and it will give the correct POSITION and TREND. However, if you will place the 
CENTER, or 72, on the halfway point in PRICE you will then geg(get?) the correct 
position in time and can see how the price is working out with time in the

--- PAGE 6 of 9 ---

MASTER SQUARE of 144 and the INNER SQUARE which starts from 72, the 
gravity center of 1/2 point of the square.
CALENDAR DAYS AND MARKET DAYS:
For any kind of a chart, we move over one space for each unit of time. 
Therefore, it would require 155 market days or 144 calendar days to complete the 
square of 144. When prices pass out of one square into another, a change in 
trend  usually  takes  place  and  the  periods  and  geometrical  angles  on  this 
MASTER CHART tell you which way the trend is going to change.
LEAP YEARS:
In calculating time periods to get exact number of days and weeks the LEAP 
YEAR must be figured and one extra day added. From 1864 the Leap Years were 
as  follows:  1868,  1872;  1876;  1880;  1884;  1888;  1892;  1896;  (added  my
nowindows: skipped 1900?) 1904; 1908; 1912; 1916; 1920; 1924; 1928; 
1932;
1936; 1940; 1944; 1948 and 1952.
(added by nowindows: 1956; 1960; 1964; 1968; 1972; 1976; 1980; 1984; 
1988;
1992; 1996; 2000; 2004; 2008; 2012; 2016)
POSITION WITH MASTER SQUARE.
To get the position with the MASTER SQUARE of 144 day it over the Daily, 
Weekly or Monthly and start from extreme low, extreme high, 0 or 1/2 point of 
the range of 1/2 of the high selling place. You can also place the top of the chart 
at the high selling price. In this way you can get the correct time and positions or 
angles at a glance.
Place MASTER CALCULATOR on January to get twelve year periods, each 
month same way.
You should have all time periods from important highs and lows calculated 
in days, weeks and months in order that you can took them up quickly on the
MASTER CHART.
Will all time periods brought up to date in this way, you can get the 
position on the MASTER CHART and the indicated trend without looking at a 
daily, weekly or month chart. You should have the time periods in months from 
every important top and bottom.
With the MASTER SQUARE of 144, you work will be cut down but you 
must learn to practice and bring up all time periods and study the MASTER 
SQUARE and learn how to use it to get tops and bottoms accurately. Work and 
practice will bring PRECISION and PROFITS. I have done my part. It is now up to 
you to work hard and if you do, your success is assured.
HOW TO PLACE THE MASTER CHART 
SQUARE OF 144 ON CHARTS
To get correct positions on any of your charts, daily, weekly or monthly, you 
must place the MASTER CHART OVER THEM correctly. The top of the MASTER 
CHART has Price and Time Chart by W. D. Gann on it. Always place this on the 
bottom of your chart unless it is where you move up to a higher price when you 
place it at 72 or bottom market “Bottom” 0.

--- PAGE 7 of 9 ---

Place the MASTER CHART at 0 on any of your other charts or at a Low 
point on the same date of any high or low point. Place the MASTER CHART at 72 
which is 1/2 of 144 on any one-half point of the price range of 1/2 of the high 
selling price.
Always place the MASTER CALCULATOR on all previous high and lows to 
get changes in trend and price resistance. Never overlook the extreme high and 
low price. Also most important 1/2 of high to low and 1/2 of the highest price 
any commodity or stock ever sold.
TIME PERIODS AND PRICE RESISTANCE
The circle of 360° is most important for time cycle and price resistance. First, we 
divide the circle by 2 and get 180 which is one-half and is most important for time or price 
in days, weeks or months. Next we divide the circle by 3 and get the triangle points of 120, 
240 and 360. Third, we divide the circle by 4 which gives 90, 180, 270, and 360, which are 
the squares and most important.
Divide the circle by 8 which gives 8 periods of 45 degree angles which are 45, 90, 
135, 180, 225, 315, and 360. Next in importance is to divide the circle by 16 which gives 
the angles of 22 1/2 degrees. We divide the circle by 32 and get the angles and time 
period of 11 1/4 degrees and their multiples. Divide the circle by 64 gives 5 5/8 degrees 
and their multiples.
The table below shows each division of 5 5/8 and we run down to 16 in the column 
which equals 90 or 1/4 of the circle and 16 is 1/4 of 64. This arrangement reading across 
gives each of the multiples and the figures between the heavy lines are among the ones 
which are the most important.
Table of 64th of the Circle
1
5 5/8
17
95 5/8
33
185 5/8
49
275 5/8
2
11 1/4
18
101 1/4
34
101 1/4
50
281 1/4
3
16 5/8
19
106 7/8
35
196 7/8
51
286 7/8
4
22 1/2
20
112 1/2
36
202 1/2
52
292 1/2
5
28 1/8
21
118 1/8
37
208 1/8
53
298 1/8
6
33 3/4
22
123 3/4
38
213 3/4
54
303 3/4
7
39 3/8
23
129 3/8
39
219 3/8
55
309 3/8
8
45
24
135
40
225
56
315
9
50 5/8
25
140 5/8
41
230 5/8
57
320 5/8
10
56 1/4
26
146 1/4
42
236 1/4
58
326 1/4

--- PAGE 8 of 9 ---

11
61 7/8
27
151 7/8
43
241 7/8
59
331 7/8
12
67 1/2
28
157 1/2
44
247 1/2
60
337 1/2
13
73 1/8
29
163 1/8
45
253 1/8
61
343 1/8
14
78 3/4
30
168 3/4
46
258 3/4
62
348 3/4
15
84 5/8
31
174 3/8
47
264 3/8
63
354 3/8
16
90
32
180
48
270
64
360
The squares from 1 to 10 are important to watch for time and price resistance as 
they are important degrees in the circle. These are: 1 – 4 – 9 – 16 – 25 – 36 – 49 – 64 – 
81
– 100 – 121 – 144 – 169 – 196 – 225 - 256 – 289 – 324 and 361, which is the 
square of
19.
Divide the circle by 6 and we get two resistance and time periods which are not 
contained in the other table. These are 60 and 300.
It is also very important to divide the circle by 12 because there are 12 months in 
the year and this works out accurately for time periods. The following are the degrees not 
shown in the above table: 30 – 150 – 210 – 330.
Divide  the  circle  by  24  which  gives  15  degree  periods  in  longitude  and 
approximately 15 days in time. because there are 24 hours in a day and the earth make 1 
revolution on its axis in 24 hours there periods are quite important. The following are not 
contained in the other table: 15 – 75 – 105 – 165 – 195 – 285 – 345.
Under the table of the 64th Circle reaching across from left to right the 2nd column is 
always 90 degrees from the first. Example: The first is 5 5/8 and 17 in the next column is 
95 5/8 or a gain of 90. Opposite 33 is 185 5/8 which is 90 from 95 5/8, opposite 49 is 275
5/8 or 90 from 185 5/8.
The column 1 under 8 between the heavy lines is 45 and the next one is 135, 225, 
and 315 each 90 degrees apart.
At the bottom of column 1 opposite 16 is 90 and reaching across is 180, 
270, and
360. These figures are all 45 degrees from the figures in column 8 which are 
the most important for time and price resistance.
To realize the value and importance of these degrees in the circle you take the price 
of highs and lows and the time periods, especially in weeks and months and check them 
over and you will see how well they work out to these important degrees.
Remember you must always figure how many points or cents the prices are up from 
the extreme low or minor lows and how many cents it is down from the extreme highs or 
minor highs. Also, how many cents it is above or below the main halfway point or the 
minor halfway points or gravity centers. You will find that the important halfway points form 
close to these natural degrees in the circle.
Example: May Soybeans extreme high 435 3/4, extreme low 67, gives the halfway 
point at 251 7/8. Look in the table and you find the 45th 64th and 253 1/8. This halfway 
point is very close. Next 1/2 of 436 3/4 is 218 3/8 and the 39th 64th is 219 3/8, very close to

--- PAGE 9 of 9 ---

this natural resistance degree. The extreme low of Cash Beans was 44 and the halfway 
point between 44 and 436 3/4 is 240 3/8. 240 is 2/3 of a circle or a triangle point and 241 
7/8 is the 43rd 64th of the circle. 44 the extreme low, was only 1 from 45, the important 
resistance level. 67, the lowest price May futures ever sold, is within 1/2 point of 67 1/2 
which is 12/64 or 3/4 between 0 and 90 and 67 1/2 is halfway between 45 and 90 which 
was the cause of May beens making lows for 5 years between 67-69 which indicated the 
big advance that followed as there were triple bottom between 67-69 in three different 
years.
Next consider the time periods December 28, 1932, was low on May Beans and 
December 28, 1947, was 15 years or 180 months which is 1/2 of circle also 1/2 of the 360 
degrees making this a very important time cycle. May beans reached extreme high on 
January 15, 1948, just 18 days beyond the even 15 year cycle. Check all other time 
periods and time cycles in the same way and you will find how well they work out in the 
circle of 360 degrees.
September 29, 1953

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 676102941-Gann.pdf
Total Pages: 52
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 52 ---

W.D. Gann through 
My Lens
Raju Chowksey
12-Dec-2015

--- PAGE 2 of 52 ---

[OCR] / m  MaximillianCohen

Restate my assumptions:
Pi (1998)

1, Mathematics is the language of nature.

2, Everything around us can be represented and
understood through numbers.

Fal
Therefore: There are patterns
everywhere in nature.

3, If you graph these numbers, patterns emerge,

--- PAGE 3 of 52 ---

[OCR] fiction /= legend
™. fabrication
f :
7M, data 23 logical
e= authentic
urban legend @ ;

“peality-
knowledge real thing

reo = objec +
proof 2 truth

--- PAGE 4 of 52 ---

Natural Squares
Price moves from one odd square to the 
other odd square:
1 x 1 = 01
3 x 3 = 09
5 x 5 = 25
7 x 7 = 49
9 x 9 = 81
11 x 11 = 121

--- PAGE 5 of 52 ---

Placing
Prices can be arranged in a circular spiral and 
the distance covered from one odd square to 
immediate next odd square is 3600

--- PAGE 6 of 52 ---

Placing
Distance covered from an odd square to the 
next odd square is 3600 completing one circle. 
E.g.:
The Difference is  49-25=24 points.
24 pts can be divided into 8 equal parts.
                             24 =3
                              8
360
5 x 5 = 25
7 x 7 = 49

--- PAGE 7 of 52 ---

Road Map
Roadmap will be 25-28-31-34-37-40-43-46-49
Another Eg:
81-49=32
7 x 7 = 49
   32 = 4
9 x 9 = 81
    8
Roadmap will be 49-53-57-61-65-69-73-77-81
360 0

--- PAGE 8 of 52 ---

241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
240
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
258
239
182
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
198
259
238
181
132
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
146
199
260
237
180
131
90
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
102
147
200
261
236
179
130
89
56
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
66
103
148
201
262
235
178
129
88
55
30
13
14
15
16
17
38
67
104
149
202
263
234
177
128
87
54
29
12
3
4
5
18
39
68
105
150
203
264
233
176
127
86
53
28
11
2
1
6
19
40
69
106
151
204
265
232
175
126
85
52
27
10
9
8
7
20
41
70
107
152
205
266
231
174
125
84
51
26
25
24
23
22
21
42
71
108
153
206
267
230
173
124
83
50
49
48
47
46
45
44
43
72
109
154
207
268
229
172
123
82
81
80
79
78
77
76
75
74
73
110
155
208
269
228
171
122
121
120
119
118
117
116
115
114
113
112
111
156
209
270
227
170
169
168
167
166
165
164
163
162
161
160
159
158
157
210
271
226
225
224
223
222
221
220
219
218
217
216
215
214
213
212
211
272
289
288
287
286
285
284
283
282
281
280
279
278
277
276
275
274
273

--- PAGE 9 of 52 ---

Macro & Micro Roadmap
 
2 Digits:
65(00)-69(00)-73(00)-77(00)-81(00)-86(00)-
91(00)
Play for 400-500 points.
3 Digits:
729(0)-743(0)-757(0)-771(0)-785(0)-799(0)-
813(0)-827(0)-841(0)
     Play for 140-150 points.
4 Digits:
7569 -7613-7656- 7700-7744 -7788-7832- 
7877
Play For 40-45 points.

--- PAGE 10 of 52 ---

Using the Calculator
360 = 2 
180 = 1 
 90  =0.5 
 45 =0.25 
87*87=7569 ;
87+2=89 
89*89=7921 (360 move from 7569)

--- PAGE 11 of 52 ---

Dynamic Square of Gann
It can be calculated from significant highs & 
lows.
E.g. 7540(Recent low on 8th sept.2015)
Take square root of 7540= 86.83
360 will be 7891(86.83+2=88.83; (88.83*88.83))
180 will be 7714(86.83+1=87.83; (87.83*87.83))
 90 will be 7627(86.83+.5=87.33; (87.33*87.33))
 45 will be 7583(86.83+.25=87.08;(87.08*87.08))

--- PAGE 12 of 52 ---

[OCR] Patterns

2

ve Bearish 1-2-3
Bullish 1-2-3 ;

--- PAGE 13 of 52 ---

[OCR] Small SI x

B2
2-B

--- PAGE 14 of 52 ---

[OCR] 2-T

E

Big SI

2-]

--- PAGE 15 of 52 ---

[OCR] NIFTYEQ - 5-minute 09/12/2015 12:24:59 Open 7668.95, Hi 7670, Lo 7666.5, Close 7668.7 (-0.0%) Vol 268

Tl OT

iM wt 2-T

| “y 1

Pap

Nifty 5 min Chart

"Dec 4 "1200 Dec? "12.00 Dec 8 "12-00

Dec 9 "12-00 Dec 10 "12.00

Dec 11

r 7,860

r 7,840

r 7,820

r 7,800

t 7,780

r 7,760

t 67,740

r 7,720

r 7,700

r 7,660

t 7,640

r 7,620

+ 7,600

--- PAGE 16 of 52 ---

Patterns
My favorite is 2B/2T although I trade on 
all of them.
If you are getting a combo of
Gann level+ Pattern+ Small SL then it is 
                     
  A-A-A

--- PAGE 17 of 52 ---

SAP
It stands for Semi Annual Pivot.
It is calculated twice in a year:
Once in January & then in July 
We take OHLC from 1st to 14th of the 
month.
 
 Jan SAP                    July SAP
 O 8273                        8376
 H 8446                     8561 
  
 L  8065                    8315 
   
 C  8277                       8454

--- PAGE 18 of 52 ---

[OCR] fppt.com

—

leaeesnnial

--- PAGE 19 of 52 ---

ATM Trade
1 Money is made in selling options not 
by buying options.
2 Look for just in the money or at the 
money options.
3 After the first 1-5 min., draw nearest 
perfect Gann square horizontal lines 
on the chart.
4 Look for a combination of perfect 
Gann square & patterns.

--- PAGE 20 of 52 ---

5 Look for a setup with Small SL 5-7 pts.
6 Trade only those setups which have 
got small sl.
7 Minimum risk reward is 1:2.5/3.
   Book 50% at RR & trail SL for balance 
as per Gann level.
8 Use a 30/36 period moving average for 
trading with a directional bias. 
9 SAR is SAAR(Gist) of ATM trades.

--- PAGE 21 of 52 ---

[OCR] NIFTY?G00PEA - 41-minute 11/12/2045 15:03:59 Open 104.4, Hi 102.1, Lo 100.5, Close 101.7 (0.3%) Vol 47,775

Nifty 7600 put 1 min chart |
|

—__
——
—
=
=
SS
——_
—
—
=~
—
ee
=
a —
——
ss
=—
i es
—_—_—
ee
—=_
——

9:15 An WA 330 Me

Wy a Nee a

Arabi
maa

--- PAGE 22 of 52 ---

[OCR] * You have to learn
the rules of the game.’
And then you have to
bey better than

thinkdaredo.com ‘)

--- PAGE 23 of 52 ---

My rules of the game 
1. Small is beautiful.
2. All rules are meant to be broken 
except Rule No. 1
3. Every call is a random walk, so 
create a small position; if the position 
is in the money, then only add more
4. Customize a trading plan to suit your 
profile

--- PAGE 24 of 52 ---

My rules of the game 
5. Rule of 72 – When tempted to book 
profits, just book 25 % and balance in 
next 24, 48, 72 hours
6. Nimble is the key word. Trade Market 
on levels rather than your belief in the 
market
7. Most of the time you would be wrong 
and quit with small losses
8. When right follow the Rule of 72

--- PAGE 25 of 52 ---

My rules of the game 
9. SAP – Most of the time, I take trade 
on the side of SAP and close to SAP 
number.
10.Trading is fun, so take it that way.

--- PAGE 26 of 52 ---

Price Time Square
 AS per Gann “Whenever Price & Time 
coordinates balance each other , A 
change in trend is Imminent.”
                
 P=T2
T= √P

--- PAGE 27 of 52 ---

How to Calculate Price Time 
Square
   We need to calculate 
1) Price Window 
2) Time Window
Whenever  Price window & Time 
window merge , it could be Price Time 
Square.

--- PAGE 28 of 52 ---

How To Calculate Time Window
1)  From Recent Low.
2)  From Recent High.
3)  Range.
Time can be in :
1) No. of Days.(Calendar/ Trading Days)
     2) No. of Weeks.
3) No. of Months.
4) No. of Years.
Time can be calculated from:
3 digit/4 digits

--- PAGE 29 of 52 ---

How to calculate Price Window
It can be calculated from:
1) Recent High/Low.
     2) Range.
3) Time of last Swing.
 It can be calculated from 3 digit /4 digit by 
using 90/120/180/216/240/270/360.

--- PAGE 30 of 52 ---

How to Calculate Price& Time 
Windows
It can be calculated from :
1)Low & Highs of previous swings.
2)Range of previous swings.
3) Time of previous swings.
    Too Much Too Soon, Anyone ??????

--- PAGE 31 of 52 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 32 of 52 ---

[OCR] SEP CNX Nit-NSEINIETY 1201511208 -Dally
0 77385H 7771.31 7685.50 77017 -637 -0.82%
P=T'T
T=\P
Time Window
Range:666=1666=25.80 days

Swing High 8627
4th 2014

I a '
ae

No. of Days 13 | if
Range:(8627-7961=666) | iG t
=12th Jan.

| |
<— Swing Low 7961
17 Dec 2014

02014 2 2015

Decoding the “Da Vinci Code”

Odth/Sth Mar 2015
9119

a
iy |

7th Feb. 20155

al

] :

Price Window:
ADigit 3 digit
360 = 8321 480=8535
2045 720=8691 360=9129
1080=9068

- 9100

L 9000

L 8900

- 8800

L 8700

L 8600

L 8500

L 8400

- 8300

L 8200

L 8100

- 8000

- 7900

--- PAGE 33 of 52 ---

Decoding the “Da Vinci Code”
Swing High 8627(4th Dec. 2014)
Swing Low 7961(17th Dec. 2014)
 Range- 8627-7961=666
No. of days: 13 days. P=T2
Time Window                                              Price Window 
Range=666=√666=25.80 days                 4 Digits:        3 Digits
Window 1:12th Jan. 2015
360 = 8321    180=8535
Window 2: 7th Feb. 2015
720=8691       360=9129
Window 3: 04th/5th Mar 2015
 1080=9068

--- PAGE 34 of 52 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 35 of 52 ---

[OCR] a a . ‘ . . ”
= - Decoding the “Da Vinci Code
S&P CNX Nify-NSE(NIFTY)2015412I08 - Daily sung a ie -
O7738.5H 7771.31 7685.5 C 77017 -3.7 -0.82% PTT

T=\P

Time Window L 9400
Range:1158=11159=34.02 days
Price Window: L 9000
ADiait 3 digit
L 2900

580 = 9741 180=8525
720=8371 360=7951
1080=8009

; fen ‘| 1440=7655 vu
T april. 2015 | r

| $600

L 8800

A | i /
] ; ‘|

9

an { if _
My i

| | | | - \ L 2300
| | | if H | No. of Days:77 \ f pn
| M Range:(9119-7961=1158) It Ma |
| (! L 2100
— Swing Low 7961 “fei inet fm
{7 Dec 2014

L 7900

fia2014 havi p B in E i T

--- PAGE 36 of 52 ---

Decoding the “Da Vinci Code”
Swing High 9119(4th March. 2014)
Swing Low 7961(17th Dec. 2014)
 Range- 9119-7961=1158
No. of days: 77 days.
Time Window                                              Price Window 
Range=1158=√1158=34.02 days                4 Digits:        3 Digits
Window 1:07th Apr 2015
              360 = 8741    180=8525
Window 2: 11th May 2015
 720=8371       360=7951
Window 3: 14th June 2015
 1080=8009
 1440=7655

--- PAGE 37 of 52 ---

[OCR] “yn &

_ SECRETS LO Og

--- PAGE 38 of 52 ---

[OCR] —

S&P CNA Nify-NSE(NIFTY)2015/12/10 - Daily
0 7683.3 H 7683.3 L 7683.3 C 7683.3 0 +0.00%

Swing High $119
04 march 2015

Price Window

ADigits: 3 Digits
360 = 8300  180=8513

720=8668 © 360=9107

225=8680

“ Decoding the “Da Vinci Code”

Swing High 9119(4th March 2014)

Time Window
Swing Low 7940(42th June 2014
ange ati9ouneti) Rangeri179=\1179=94 days
From Low of 7940

No. of days: 100 days. ;
3 Digit=T= 1'794(0}=28 days

24 july 2045
8655
|
16 july 2018
A
140 july 2018(CD)
30 july 20187(TD)

—19 aug 2015
(cb)

—

H
ia

| i

Swing Low7940
12 june2016

IL

L 9100

- 9000

L 8900

L 8800

L 8700

8600

L 8500

L 8400

L 8300

8200

L 8100

8000

L 7900

7800

L 7700

L 7600

L 7500

H2014 Hi2015

--- PAGE 39 of 52 ---

Decoding the “Da Vinci Code”
Swing High 9119(4th March 2014)
Swing Low 7940(12th June 2014)
 Range- 9119-7940=1179
No. of days: 100 days.
Time Window                               Price Window 
Range=1179 =√1179=34 days                   4 Digits:         3 Digits
Window 1:16th July 2015(CD)
               360 = 8300    180=8513
Window 2: 30th July 2015(TD)
  720=8668      360=9107
Window 3: 19th Aug 2015(CD)
                         225=8660
 
From Low of 7940
3 Digit =T= √ 794(0)=28 days
Window1:10th July 2015(CD)
Window2: 21st July 2015(TD)

--- PAGE 40 of 52 ---

[OCR] | DA Winnett
[ParnGon Daeg

Dead #ngy
EOMYGGn Bacce es
And BIG A108

~~ = = Sr “er 4

--- PAGE 41 of 52 ---

Life After Cracking “Da Vinci 
Code" 
1) I wanted all of you to understand the mechanism 
of price time square because there is lot of 
mystery associated with it ????????
2)  There is no Holy grail in trading as you can see 
that there are lots of 
calculations/Co-relations/Interpretation required 
to call for a market top/bottom.
3) Once you start price time calculation, please 
bear in mind that you would have to look for 
confluence of levels by looking at higher time 
frame, bigger swings etc to call for a top/bottom.

--- PAGE 42 of 52 ---

Life After Cracking “Da Vinci Code" 
4) Fibo no's/ Fibo retracement/ Gann 
retracement would come handy for 
calculating top/bottom.
5) Money is made by Trading in the market 
& not by predicting the market.
6) Is it worth the “EFFORTS”?????

--- PAGE 43 of 52 ---

[OCR] ROME
WASN'T
BUILT IN

=== S==
=-
——=

are fa fol tol ,
ritgal la we) MCh) O10) are
Magi ! Vaaadanny

--- PAGE 44 of 52 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 45 of 52 ---

“ROME WASN’T BUILT IN A DAY”
1) Practice/Practice/Practice till you drop 
dead.
2)  Trading is like driving, you need to 
practice & soon it will become effortless.
3) Trade with in your comfort zone. I am 
terribly under leveraged all the time.
4) Small SL is the only “MANTRA”. Apply it 
every time/ all the time.
5) Trading cannot be done on borrowed 
Mechanism.

--- PAGE 46 of 52 ---

[OCR] Charting is a little like surfing.
You dont have to know alot ~
about the physics of tides to
catch a good wave. You just have
to be able to sense when its
happening and then ha e the
drive to act at.the,meht tir

———

--- PAGE 47 of 52 ---

“ROME WASN’T BUILT IN A DAY”
6) Trade only when you have setup with 
small sl. Don't force A pattern setup on 
yourself. It should be scream.
7) Understand your Profile First.(T-20/One 
day/Test)
8)Trading is less about skills , more about 
Psychological setup.
9) Money is made by trading & not by 
predicting.

--- PAGE 48 of 52 ---

" With enough practice over a period of 
time , I am very confident that each one of 
us would become Goga , Aaya hoon to 
kuch lekar hi jaaonga.

--- PAGE 49 of 52 ---

[OCR] 96 (0.6%) Vol 16,255

| ee |
‘| Mh

ali i M

i;
} 4 f y bie! if
_ '

ne nes Denne enna eens Benne sane Denne Sennen nnns Bannan

--- PAGE 50 of 52 ---

[OCR] f

j
i

i

i \

4! i

| 750
,
\

--- PAGE 51 of 52 ---

W.D. Gann through my lens

--- PAGE 52 of 52 ---

[OCR] EmilysQuotes.Com

MONEY IS NUMBERS AND

NUMBERS NEVER END,

IF IT TAKES MONEY TO
BE HAPPY,

YOUR SEARCH FOR

“
Onn. -
e744

HAPPINESS WILL NEVER END,

~BOB MARLEY

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 736357487-Charles-Shephard-Gann-Cycles-Course-A-Time-and-Price-Cycle-Analysis.pdf
Total Pages: 148
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 148 ---

[OCR] Charles Shephard
Gann Cycles Course

--- PAGE 2 of 148 ---

Page.1
by Charles Shephard
A Time and Price Cycle Analysis
"To make a success in trading stocks you must get
the knowledge first; you must learn before you
lose. Many traders go into the stock market
without any knowledge and lose a large part of
their capital before they learn that it is necessary
to go through a period of preparation before they
start trading” 
W.D. Gann, 45 Years in Wall Street (1949)
  .

--- PAGE 3 of 148 ---

Page.2
Section
Contents
Page
Introduction
3
1.
Markets
8
2.
Volume
11
3.
Swing charts
13
4.
Support and resistance levels
33
5.
Sections of the market
37
6.
Market patterns
40
7.
Using a range to calculate a high price
46
8.
Using a range to calculate a low price
48
9.
Time counts
50
10.
Squaring time with price / Gann angles
55
11.
Squaring a high price
63
12.
Squaring a low price
64
13.
Squaring a range
65
14.
Percentages of the highs and lows
66
15.
Time cycles
68
16.
Seasonal time
90
17.
Price cycles
93
18.
Market squares
101
19.
Balancing of time
104
20.
Forecasting
108
21.
Intraday trading
111
22.
Reversal date analysis
115
23.
Trade management
124
24.
Charts
133
Supplementary Information
136
Origins of Cycles
147
  .

--- PAGE 4 of 148 ---

Page.3
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  .
 
Introduction
Gann Cycles: Time and Price Analysis by Charles Shephard.
The combining of the time and price cycle calculation techniques used in this trading
system are thepracticalapplicationofWDGann’sstatementthat“whenyouknowhow
to use time and pricetogetheryouknowhowtotrade”.
As a market progress through TIME it will radiate,ortouseWDGann’sterm“vibrate”
from past high and low points waves into the future much like a pebble tossed into a
pond. The more important the high or low then the more important is the cycle. These
cycles or waves are fixed in their duration so can be calculated and projected into the
future. Gann stated in Tunnel thru the Air, “thatinorderto know and predict the future
of anything you only have to look up what has happened in the past and get a correct
baseorstartingpoint”and “…..ifyouhavethecorrectstartingpointandknowthe
cyclethatisgoingtoberepeated.”
As with time being measured from a past reference point, using the same cycles, so too
can price. When a time cycle and a price cycle meet this is where reversals occur. The
key to successful trading when using cycles is to coordinate price analysis with time
analysis so that when the cycles align on a particular date one can be prepared to take
advantage of the possible reversal in trend.
I have developed a system that integrates Time and Price cycles so that when they
intersect at points that are known in advance they will enable knowledge of exact dates
and prices to monitor for market reversals. The manner of their application is essentially
an extension of the already known techniques used by Gann traders but is greatly
superior as it enables precise calculation of potential reversal points to be made well in
advance by using information on the cycles that were not includedinGann’scommonly
available courses.
There are two primary cycles relied upon that Gann left information on. A third cycle is
a variation of one of the main two cycles. Each of the cycles can be calculated in
minutes, hours, days, solar degrees, weeks, months or years. When calculated in weeks
or larger time increments they tend to lose their exact day accuracy. These cycles when
divided into their parts as Gann instructed will give numerous intermediate high and
lows in the future. When major reversals occur there will always be one of these cycles
present.
ItisknownthatGann’scourseswereoftensoldtohisstudentswithpersonaltuitionalso
provided by him. It is likely that the additional knowledge of other cycle information
was revealed in this tuition. Consequently the original courses alone do not detail some
of the more powerful cycles used for time and price calculations and how to apply them.
One of the more accurate methods of determining a reversal point in price is by
knowledge of certain numbers that are derived from the main cycles. On a time cycle
date the moment a market reaches one of these numbers when ranging in price you will
be aware that is the point of reversal. This does not mean you will initiate a trade
immediately; you must wait for price action to confirm the analysis and to provide an
entry signal.
The more commonly known concepts of Gann, such as squaring time with price,
support and resistance levels and the swing chart are a suitable basis for this system to

--- PAGE 5 of 148 ---

Page.4
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
Each of the techniques detailed in the following sections is aimed at determining these
points in time and price where a reversal may occur at. All market turns can be
accounted for using these techniques. It is likely impossible to be aware of them all in
advance as there are also numerous minor cycles that affect a market as it progresses
through time and price. Many of these cycles are also are detailed. It has been
endeavoured to isolate the most effective methods in developing this system to maintain
ease of application, consequently there are some techniques that once detailed are not
referred to again.
In my initial years as a trader I was intrigued by what caused the frequent high and low
points in markets. After years of study of WD Gann’s trading methods and by 
application of the information obtained from various sources to my hand drawn charts
which covered many years, certain things became apparent. Some of this information I
found explained Gann’s works to the extent that by knowledge of certain numbers and 
how to interpret them you “know” when reversals will occur. In my personal trading I
have traded numerous high and low points on the day they occurred, as well as many
intermediate swing turns in a trending market. One of these was exiting a short position
three points from a three hundred and seventy day bear market low.
  .
 
be used with to determine which of the cycle dates are to be traded. The system is
suitable for intraday trading or entering positions as a market reacts on a cycle date at
the support or resistance levels by use of short time frame bars to indicate an entry point.
This allows for stops to be kept very close. The predetermined cycle dates are the key to
this method.
WDGann’sconceptsofdividingtime,priceandspaceisbasedonthepremisethat
everything moves in cycles or circles. A whole or 100% of a cycle in price or time is
where you start. These wholes are then divided by the Gann percentages. They can also
be used in multiples of the original whole. Where there are intersections of these whole
or part divisions is where resistance or support is located. As can be seen in the below
diagram where there is numerous intersections of these divisions of time, price and
space is where there is greater resistance or support.

--- PAGE 6 of 148 ---

Page.5
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  .
 
Having the ability to determine tops and bottoms is one thing, to safely trade them is
another.Thesafestwaytotradeis“withthetrend”andyoumustalwaysusestoploss
orders. The importance of a markets trend cannot be underestimated. There are methods
described in this system that will forewarn of a change of trend, price action on the day
will confirm the reversal.
If you are not an experienced trader initially use this system to determine reversals
within an existing trend. Watch and learn from the factors present at the main highs and
lows before you trade them.
There are many systems available and some of them work well. There are Elliott wave
counts that are similar to Gann’ssectionsofthemarketandFibonaccinumbers that are
similar to Gannpricelevels.WDGann’smethodsshowwhymarketsworkthewaythey
do. These methods always work when properly applied. There have been occasions that
I have identified as a turning date and the market did not turn until the following day or
a day early. The reason for this was because I had overlooked other factors or made
inaccurate calculations. I learnt this information by making it my goal to understand
what was behind every swing turn on my charts.
The techniques shown in this manual when applied to the chart will show dates and
price levels that as the market works its way into these areas will enable you to form a
picture and be prepared for what is likely to follow. It is worth remembering that it is
best to regard these areas as signposts rather than impenetrable barriers. That is why
before entering a trade you must watch on the day for the reaction, this only needs to be
a higher swing low for long trades or a lower top for short trades using intraday charts.
To be successful as a trader you will need to have a distinct advantage over the market,
a plan to profit from that advantage and the discipline to apply that plan. The contents of
this manual will provide you with the distinct advantage. How you apply this
information is also described. How well you do this is for you to determine. This aspect
will determine your success or otherwise.
Acknowledgement must be given to WD Gann for his ability to have discovered the
reasons as to why markets turn when they do. It must also be remembered that he also
stated that the best way to trade was by swing trading.
TheinformationinthefollowingsectionsisderivedsolelyfromWDGann’sworksand
other sources that he indicated would hold important information. There is also the
additionofcertainconceptsIhavedevelopedfrom Gann’sinformationbuthaveno
doubt that he was aware of them also but chose not to reveal this.
ForthosewhoaretrulyinterestedinGann’swork,thereismore.Thisinformationisnot
commercially available as yet. Check back to the www.ganncycles.net site occasionally
for further updates.
Wishing you profitable trading.
Charles Shephard

--- PAGE 7 of 148 ---

The following is an extract from the WD Gann stock market course.
“TIMEisthemostimportantfactorindetermining market movements and by studying
the past records of the averages or individual stocks you will be able to prove for
yourself that history does repeat and that by knowing the past you can tell the future.
The ancient hunters had a rule that when they were searching to locate an animal in his
den they always followed his tracks backwards, figuring that it was the shortest route to
his lair. The quickest way for you to learn how to determine future market movements is
tostudythepast.“Thethingthat hath been, it is that which shall be; and there is no
newthingsunderthesun”.Eccl.1:9.
There is a definite relation between time and price. By a study of the time periods and
time cycles you will learn why tops and bottoms are formed at certain times and why
resistance levels are so strong at certain times and bottoms and tops hold around them.
Everything moves in cycles as a result of the natural law of action and reaction. By a
study of the past, I have discovered what cycles repeat in the future. There must always
be a major and a minor, a greater and a lesser, a positive and a negative. In order to be
accurate in forecasting the future, you must know the major cycles. The most money is
made when fast moves and extreme fluctuations occur at the end of major cycles.
The basis of my forecasting method
Mathematics is the only exact science. All power under heaven and earth is given unto
themanwhomastersthesimplescienceofmathematics.Emersonsaid,“Goddoes
indeedgeometrize”.Faradaysaid,“There is nothing in the universe but mathematical
pointsofforce”.Pythagoras,oneofthegreatestmathematiciansthateverlived,after
experimentingwithnumbersandfindingtheproofsofallnaturallaws,said,“Before
Godwasnumbers”.Hebelievedthat the vibration of numbers created God and the
Deity.Ithasbeensaid,“Figuresdon’tlie”.Menhavebeenconvincedthatnumberstell
the truth and that all problems can be solved by them.
The chemist, engineer and astronomer would be lost without the science of mathematics.
It is so simple and easy to solve problems and get correct answers and results with
figures that it seems strange so few people rely on them to forecast the future of
business, stocks and commodity markets. No matter whether you use geometry,
trigonometry or calculus, you use the simple rules of arithmetic. You do only two things,
you increase or decrease. WD Gann.
There are two kinds of numbers, odd and even. We add numbers together, which is
increasing. We multiply, which is a shorter way to increase. We subtract, which
decreases, and we divide, which also decreases. With the use of higher mathematics, we
find a quicker and easier way to divide, subtract, add and multiply, yet very simple
when you understand it
Everything in nature is male and female, white and black, harmony or inharmony, right
and left. The market moves only two ways, up and down. There are three dimensions
which we know how to prove width, length and height. We use three figures in geometry,
the circle, the square and the triangle. We get the square and triangle points of a circle
to determine point of time, price and space resistance. We use the circle of 360 degrees
to measure time and price.
.
Page.6

--- PAGE 8 of 148 ---

Page.7
    
  
  
 
   
Why most people lose in the markets.
The three main reasons the majority of people who trade in the markets lose money are;
1.
They over-trade or buy and sell too much for their capital.
2.
They do not place stop loss orders or limit their losses.
3.
Lack of knowledge. (This is the most important reason of all).
Most people buy stock because they hope it will go up and they will make profits. They
buy on tips or on what someone else thinks without any research of their own, they then
enter the market wrong and do not recognise their mistake or attempt to correct it until
it is too late. Eventually, they sell because they fear the stock will go lower still and then
they sell out at near the low levels. They do not realise that the stock market is a
business or a profession.
Why you need to learn to determine the trend of the market.
You may have tried to follow market advisory services and lost money or failed to make
profits. It is not wise to follow another persons lead even though they are right because
you cannot have the confidence to act on the advice when you do not know what it is
based on. You will be able to act with confidence and make profits when you can see
and know for yourself why markets should go up or down.
WD Gann.
 
 .
 
There are three kinds of angles, the vertical, the horizontal and the diagonal, which we
use for measuring time and price movements. We use the square of odd and even
numberstogetnotonlytheproofofmarketmovementsbutthecause.”

--- PAGE 9 of 148 ---

Page.8
To profitably trade the markets we want as much going our way as possible. As it is a
fact that more people lose in the markets than profit from them, than the obvious thing
is to select for trading markets that exhibit the characteristics that are conducive for
profitable trading. Trading is a probability business, timing is critical, but you will sleep
better if the markets you trade respond well to the points of support and resistance in
time and price that are calculated. You can take the best system but trade it in a poor
market and it will not do well.
Important points to consider are a markets daily range or price movement. There is little
point in tying up capital in a market that moves only a few points or cents per day.
Markets with sufficient liquidity or volume will ensure the spread or difference between
the buyers and sellers will not erode profits or add to losses at entry or exit.
The below chart is of the Nikkei 225 (CME)
The below chart is of the S&P 500 (CME)
 
 .
 
1. Markets

--- PAGE 10 of 148 ---

Markets sometimes trend strongly ordon’ttrendatallforlengthyperiodsoftime.It’s
been saidthat“showmesomeonethat’smakingmoneyandI’llshowyouatrending
market”.Thisiswhatyouwant. The recommended trading scenarios in this manual will
ensure that entries are made very close to reversal points. From these reversal points is
often where the strongest moves begin.
There are those that search for markets that behave in certain ways or form particular
patterns, and those that focus on just a few markets patiently waiting for a trading signal.
Monitoring various markets can find you more trading opportunities, but getting to
know a market can have the advantage of getting a feel for that market.
Constantly switching between markets for can be confusing for some, specialising in
oneoronlyafewmarketscanleadto“pushing”trades. There are some markets that
reactions against the main trend are often to a particular level, or they are prone to false
breakouts, or they make clear moves or sometimes have large overnight gaps. Being
aware of market characteristics and your own personality type is important.
Often commodity markets trend better than do some stock indexes for example, because
their“value”isdeterminedbysupplyanddemandratherthanspeculation or rumour.
Gann believed commodities were easier to work with than were stocks.
Markets with ranges suitable for extracting a worthwhile profit from are important, as is
a market that exhibits in its chart pattern large overnight gaps advisable to stay away
from, as with the Nikkei shown above.
Costs in trading include minimum trading account size, brokerage fees, slippage and
with the recent introduction of Contracts for Difference, the interest payable on long
positions.
If you are in the United States and trading the Australian Share Price Index it would not
be practical unless you are nocturnal or are prepared to place limit orders.
Some exchanges that have overnight trading sessions will add that data to the previous
day or to the following day, and when calculating the precise day and degree
calculations explained in the cycle section, your calculations can be out by a day or even
three days. For example when a weekly turning point has occurred in a Friday nights
trading session but is added to the Monday’s data. Know your exchange and data
vendor’sinterpretationsofwhatyou may take for granted.
All markets at times can be volatile or trend well or are indecisive of their trend so when
looking for markets you wish to trade it is important to consider all these factors.
The chart on the following page is of a retail sector stock. The easiest money is made in
markets that trend in a reliable manner. On this chart note the swings on the way up and
down.Thisisasgoodasitgetsifusingamechanicaltradingsystem.The“swing
charts”sectiondetailsthismethod.
As simple as it may seem, using the swing chart for pattern and price information and
the daily bar chart for timing signals can be the most effective way to trade. This is what
Gannmeantwhenhestatedthat“swingtradingismostprofitable”.The following
chapters will show how to calculate price levels that the swing chart can react at. The
daily bar chart, by use of the time counts will show the time ranges and time cycles.
When these factors align, then a reversal is likely.
.
Page.9

--- PAGE 11 of 148 ---

Page.10
 
     
 
 
 .
 
The highly emotional aspect of futures markets is what accounts for their conforming
well to the natural cyclical rhythms. The journey getting to the target dates and prices
can be volatile though. It is common for futures markets to routinely retrace up to 2/3rds
of their moves.
Today, it is relatively easy to trade individual stocks both for long and short positions
with recent trading products. If you are finding it difficult trading volatile futures
markets you may need to look at markets that trend more steadily.
Another factor to be considered with markets is the practical maintenance of a wall
chart that continually grows. At some stage it can become too cumbersome to use. A
market that trades within historical ranges that can be charted without having to add
new sections of chart paper above or below old highs and lows is more practical.
If you have studied Gann you would have come across the instructions he gave on
charting. He did say not to leave spaces for non trading days. It must be remembered
that markets traded 6 days each week in his time. He also stated that every few weeks to
leave spaces for the non traded days. This seems cumbersome. For the sake of
consistency it is best to use calendar days. This will become even more apparent as to
why, whenyougettothe“time counts’section.

--- PAGE 12 of 148 ---

Page.11
Before trading in a stock or commodity an important factor that you need to look at is
the daily volume.
The daily volume is important as it determines at what price you can enter or exit a
market position. Markets that have low volume often have very large price swings.
These fluctuations are due to the laws of supply and demand. If there is only a few
available sellers of the market you want to buy, you are forced to pay what they want.
On the other hand, when you decide to sell, you may be forced to sell at a bid price not
closely matched with the most recent prices paid.
As low volume markets are traded by only a few, the market can easily be sold down
harder than markets that have higher volume it is also more easily “managed” going up.
“The driving power behind a market’s rise and fall is its volume. Volume shows 
whether supply or demand is increasing or decreasing. Monitoring the volume of sales
enables you to determine a change in trend.
At the end of a prolonged bull market or a rapid advance there is usually a large
increase in the volume of sales. After a sharp decline on heavy volume and a secondary
rally takes place with decreased volume, it is an indication that a final top has been
made.
If a market holds after making a second lower top and makes a narrow trading range
and then breaks out (down) on increased volume it is an indication of a further decline.
After a prolonged decline and the market is reaching bottom, the volume of trading
should decrease and the range in fluctuation should decline. This is a good indication
that liquidation is nearing an end and the market is about to show a change in trend.
After the first sharp advance when changing from a bear market to a bull market, a
market will have a secondary reaction and make a low just as it had a secondary rally
after the first sharp decline. If the volume of sales decreases on the reaction and then
the market moves up advancing on heavier volume it will be an indication of an
advance to higher levels.
Sales increase near the top and decrease near the bottom. The largest volume of sales
often comes before the final top is reached, that is, when the actual high is made. In
determining the extreme high and low points, monitor the market’s volume.
WD Gann.
 
.
 .
 
2. Volume of the Market

--- PAGE 13 of 148 ---

Page.12
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 .
 
Close observation of“marketdepth”isveryusefulfortimingentriesandexits.Oftenas
a market progresses and encounters a resistance level or breaks to a new level it will
react one or two points or cents. Timing your entry to buy or sell after this reaction has
occurred as buying becomes greater will often see a trade not go against you at all.
This is particularly so when entering trades of the type described at the end of the
following section on swing charts.
ThebelowchartofCBOTCornshowsGann’sdescriptionofhowvolumecanbeused
to assist in analysis of a market. Note the low volume days leading into the lower top
and the higher volume at this reversal

--- PAGE 14 of 148 ---

Page.13
“THE BEST WAY TO TRADE”The most money is made by swing trading, or in the
long pull trades, that is following a definite trend as long as the market trend is up or
down, you must learn by rules to wait until the market gets out of a rut or a trading
range. WD Gann
The swing chart or trend chart may be the most simple, yet effective method of
determining a markets’ trend. The construction of a swing chart results in what Gann 
called the Trend Indicator. The most common is the 1 day swing chart but he also
worked with the 2 day, 3 day and weekly swing charts as well as a “points” swing chart.
By using the 1 day swing chart in conjunction with a larger time frame swing chart,
such as the 2 day, or the 1 week swing chart you are able to see the minor trend and
main trend together. If you are a surfer, imagine riding a smaller wave with a larger
wave coming in from behind. The following chart of late 2004 in the S&P 500 shows
the daily bar chart, next is the 1 day swing chart, it shows a clearer picture and the 2 day
swing chart reveals a clearer view again.
Daily bar chart of the S&P 500
 
 .
 
3. Swing Charts

--- PAGE 15 of 148 ---

Page.14
correspond
2 day swing chart of the above period.
 
 .
 
1 day swing chart of the same period of the S&P 500.

--- PAGE 16 of 148 ---

Page.15
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 .
 
Types of Swing Charts
Following is bar chart with a 1 day swing overlay and a 2 day swing overlay. The trend
line connects the high and low points. The second chart only has the trend line move to
the next high when there has been two successive bars in the same direction making
new highs. Note that the trend line has been moved down to bottom of the one day
moveinthetoprightofthelowerchart.ThisiswhatGanntermed“exceptiontothe
rule”.Thisisdonetoincludeanymovesthatarelargerthantheaverage.

--- PAGE 17 of 148 ---

Page.16
Below is what Gann called a trend indicator line, drawn on the S&P 500
A pure swing trading system does not require you to have a separate bar chart as the
information can be taken from computer charts and the box style swing chart can be
hand drawn on a sheet of graph paper with the price scaling on the left side.
The box style swing chart has the advantage over a swing overlay or a trend line
indicator as it compresses the market action and clearly shows past levels where
swing turns have occurred. Where there are clusters of support or resistance levels,
then that will be an area of greater importance. This type of swing chart can easily
be hand drawn on a sheet of graph paper.
 
 .

--- PAGE 18 of 148 ---

Page.17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Below is a “100 point or greater”swing chart from the 2000 high on the S&P 500 to the
October 2002 low. The main trend is very clear.
 
 .
 
“X”PointsSwingChart
An“X”point’sswingchartdoesnottakeintoaccountthedailyorweekly time values,
it uses the price value of a trading range. You may have a trend that is showing 50
points or less retracements in a rising market, and then a retracement of 112 points may
occur. By using this larger retracement and ignoring lesser ones, until the next
retracement of similar amount to the 112 points occurs, you will have a larger
perspective of the trend.
Usingadaily,2dayand“points”swingcharttogethercanbeveryuseful.

--- PAGE 19 of 148 ---

Page.18
 
 
     
 
   
  
  
 
 .
 
How to construct a swing chart
To construct a 1 day swing chart start from a low point on a daily bar chart, use your
computer charting program to get the low price on this day. On a sheet of graph paper
with the price scale on the vertical axis at the left, draw a vertical line from the bottom
left, up to the high level at the last bar before there is a down day; that is a day that has a
lower low than the previous day. The line then moves down to that low and continues
vertically down to the low level of each bar on each successive down day. The line is
then swung up from the last low price at the day that has a high that is higher than the
previous day.
Using the below section of the S&P 500 daily bar chart to construct a 1 day swing chart
you draw a line connecting from 1 up to 2, from 2 down to 3 and from 3 up to 4 and so
on, until you reach 21.
Notethatpoint18isatan“outside”day,abarthathasbothahigher high and a lower
low than the previous day. The swing line goes to the high or low that occurred first in
the day. In this case it was the high.

--- PAGE 20 of 148 ---

Page.19
 
 .
 
The following diagram is what a swing chart would look like if the markets always
behaved in a typical manner. Markets do seek order and they achieve it. We must
recognize this if we are to profit.
Wave 1 is 100% of the range.
Wave 2 is a 50% retracement.
Wave 3 is a repeat of wave 1 or 100% of it.
Wave 4 is a 50% retracement again and the market is balanced, it has done the same
again as wave 1 and 2.
Wave 5 only does 75% of waves 1 and 3 so is weaker.
Wave 6 retraces more than the earlier retracements of 50% at 66.6% but has not
confirmed a lower top yet to indicate a change in trend.
Wave 7 attempts to take out the wave 5 high and fails, this forms lower swing top
when the next day trades lower this turns the direction of the swing chart down.
Wave 8 does 125% of wave 6 and finds support at a past support level.
Wave 9 retraces 62.5% of wave 8.
Wave 10 repeats wave 8 or 100% of it.
Wave 11 completes only 75% of wave 10 and indicates less selling pressure.
Each swing turn will be very close to a percentage of a previous range and a support
and resistance level of a past range. Where there is a group or cluster of levels, then
that is a more important area to watch.

--- PAGE 21 of 148 ---

Page.20
Once the swing chart has been constructed, buy and sell signals generated by what Gann
termed the “mechanical method” trading system appear quite clearly as do the locations 
for stop loss placements.
 
 .
 
Following is a 1 day bar chart and the corresponding swing chart of the French CAC 40
8th April 2005 high at 4144. The final range of 112 is 125% of 90.5 and 87.5% of 158
was at 4148. Note the repeating 72 and 73 point price ranges. The absolute price of
4,144 and the final price range of 112 are important numerically when used in
conjunction with the time cycle that was present at this high.

--- PAGE 22 of 148 ---

Page.21
 
 .
 
If the trend is up, which is signaled by consecutive higher lows, a buy signal is
generated when a new high is made following a swing bottom. A sell signal is generated
during a down trend when a new low is made immediately after a swing top. New sell
signals are generated every time after a reversal a new low occurs. The sell signal is
generated as the new low is made.
As markets often repeat their trading ranges, and if a market has retraced 50% of its last
range, then by the time the buy signal has been made 50% of the move has completed.
If it has been a false break, and a reversal is occurring, then the stop loss position can be
a long way off. The way to enter the trade earlier when swing trading is by using price
reaction to support and resistance levels. This is done by waiting until the day after the
day that the retracement ended. This is, when on the next day if the market trades back
in the direction of the main trend by the swing chart turning back up, this is the entry
signal. A stop can be placed behind the retracement high or low point.
In the following chart of an Australian bank CBA, the 4th May 2000 clearly indicated a
resumption of the main trend. The retracement had completed at the 33.3% level of the
main range (solid line) and at 66.6% of the most recent range (dashed line). The
following day turned the swing chart up shortly after the days open providing the entry
signal. The 4th May showed increased volume to the preceding few days.

--- PAGE 23 of 148 ---

Page.22
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 .
 
Like any trend trading system the possibility exists for being whipsawed, but this can be
reduced by applying a filter such as the 2 day swing chart or weekly swing chart. A 2
day swing chart only has its trend line move when there is 2 successive higher days or 2
successive lower days occurring when moving away from a low or high point. It then
continues for each successive day in that direction ignoring 1 day counter trend moves.
The line then reverses only when there is 2 successive days in the opposite direction.
This type of chart is shown earlier in this section. The weekly swing chart is constructed
using the same rules as with the one day swing chart.
The trend line indicator only changes direction when we have an opposite day to the
trend. That is on a down day in an uptrend, or, on an up day during a down trend. This
doesn't mean the market has made a top or bottom. A top is not confirmed until a lower
top is formed, and a low is not confirmed until there is higher bottom.
Swing charts clearly identify trends in the market removing a lot of noise that might
normally be hidden when only using bar charts. A trend is defined by progressive
swings in the same direction.
The1day,withthe2day,weeklyor“x”pointsswingchartsidebysideisverygood
for monitoring amarkets’trend. This enables different perspectives of the market.
Where analysis of the different swing charts results in similar price projections it can be
a very important level.
As with most things in technical analysis some subjective approaches can be useful. On
occasions you will find that the rules for a particular swing chart may need varying,
Gann’stermforthiswas“theexceptiontotherule”.Youmayfindwhenconstructinga
2 day swing chart that a particular day has a daily range against the main trend greater
than the average, it may be greater than some ranges that are 2 or 3 days in duration, so
you will include this retracement. What you are trying to achieve is a picture of the
market that will show what you need, so the rules can be varied at times.
Swing charts, in addition to monitoring trends, also provide valuable information on
what a market could do next. By noting data, such as the price ranges and the time taken
to complete the ranges, you are able to form a view of what can next be expected.
If applying this system to intraday trading then 1 to 30 minute bars can be used to define
an intraday trend. Stops can be placed below higher bottoms in an uptrend and above
lower highs in downtrends. Smaller time frames are more suitable for active markets.
Using good money management rules and profit / loss ratios, swing trading can define
clear entries points, placement of stops and target price levels at which to take profits or
place stops at in expanding markets. Experienced Gann traders will have learnt to use
the swing chart as the basis of their trading system.

--- PAGE 24 of 148 ---

Page.23
   
 
 
 
 
 
 .
 
The following chartoftheLondonFTSEshowsGann’s“rule of three”in sections or
waves, the percentage retracements, projections and a strong support level at the next
level after the 50% level at 56.25% at the wave 3 low.
Also count the number of days from the low, the first range took 3 days, the second was
3 days, the third was 1 day, the fourth was 2 days and the last was 2 days. The last three
ranges indicated a weakening market as it had changed its balance from the first two
equal times of 3 days each, and the expanding price range from 79.5 to 110. The top at
the 91 point range (always note ranges that are 90 or multiples of it), was then followed
by a lower top which confirmed the trend had now turned down.
The declines, though sharper than the rallies were not greater in time which indicated
this was not particularly bearish.

--- PAGE 25 of 148 ---

Page.24
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 .
 
Monitoring a markets progress using the daily or one day swing chart is an easy and
clearmannerofrecognizingthemarketstrend.Analysisofthe“swings”or ranges will
reveal valuable information on a markets repeating patterns and cyclical behaviour.

--- PAGE 26 of 148 ---

[OCR] Google Inc. One day swing chart.

oO ¢
CMO TDF FO FO oD Dd oO oblUCcoUlUCcUUUcUwUUCUcUUCUCUOCCcCUOCUCUOUCUOCUCOUCcUOUUCcUOUCcCOUCD

Page 25

--- PAGE 27 of 148 ---

[OCR] Google Inc. One week swing chart.

Page 26

--- PAGE 28 of 148 ---

RulesforGann’smechanicaltradingmethod appliedto“long”positions.
These rules apply to the daily bar chart and corresponding daily swing chart following.
1.
Trade only with the trend. Higher swing tops and higher swing bottoms ARE
an UPTREND.
2.
The uptrend is defined by point B being above the previous swing high. The
strongest trades are when the minor (daily) trend is in the direction of the
main (weekly) trend.
3.
“Buy”when a reaction occurs back in the direction from A to B from point
C. The point C day will ideally have high volume and close at the high end
of the days trading range. If C is at a Gann level of support of 50% or less
this will indicate strength. These percentage levels are detailed in the
“SupportandResistance”section.
4.
Only buy if you can make a trade entry before 33.3% of the A to B range has
completed. The further the entry from point C will also be the closer to the
end of the move.
5.
The“Buy”entry signal is made when the day after the point C day has
traded higher than the high of the C day. This day should ideally have high
volume that indicates renewed buying.
6.
At the time of entry place a Stop below point C. If the market traded below
C it would mean that the trend has reversed as the swing chart now points
down. The distance between entry and stop at C is the risk cost of the trade.
7.
Calculate from point C the resistance levels the market will encounter as it
moves up according to the Gann levels of 1/8ths and 1/3rds of the price
range of A to B. The 50% level of the previous range is where most
unsuccessful trades fail as it is the strongest resistance level.
8.
Profits can be taken at 66.6% to 100% of the A to B range. If the market is
strong and moving fast place an exit stop below the low of each successive
day so as to protect profits when the market reverses.
Note that the application of timing analysis described in the later sections will give
advance warning of dates that are likely to be reversal points. These time cycle dates
will also indicate dates where resistance will be encountered and when the time of
the end of the markets current run can be expected.
Price cycle analysis will indicate the price levels where resistance can be expected.
Where there is a Gann percentage level and this is also the same place where a price
cycle aligns than it is a stronger area of resistance. Example: in the following swing
chart the 133.3% level at the .50c price range is also the addition of the .37c
and .14c ranges.
For larger time frames for a bigger picture perspective weekly bars can be used in
the same manner as described above.Dailybarscanthenbeused“intraweek”as
hourly bars can be used intraday.
 .
Page.27

--- PAGE 29 of 148 ---

Page.28
1 day bar chart –mechanical trading method, long positions.
 
 .

--- PAGE 30 of 148 ---

Page.29
1 day swing chart –mechanical trading method, long positions.
 
 .

--- PAGE 31 of 148 ---

Page.30
Rules for Gann’s mechanical trading system applied to “short” positions.
These rules apply to the daily bar chart and corresponding daily swing chart following.
1.
Trade only with the trend. Lower swing tops and lower swing bottoms
indicate a DOWNTREND.
2.
The downtrend is defined by point B being below the previous swing low
and point C being below A. The strongest trades are when the minor (daily)
trend is in the direction of the main (weekly) trend.
3.
“Sell” when a reaction occurs back in the direction from A to B from point C.
The point C day will ideally have high volume and close at the lower end of
the days trading range. If point C was unable to reach the Gann level of
resistance at 50% then this will indicate a weak market or strength in the
direction of the down trend.
4.
Only “Sell” if you can make a trade entry before 33.3% of the A to B range 
has completed. The further the entry from point C will also be the closer to
the end of the move.
5.
The “Sell” entry signal is made when the day after the point C day has traded 
lower than the low of the point C day. This day will ideally have high
volume that indicates renewed selling.
6.
At the time of entry place a Stop above point C. If the market traded above
point C it would mean that the trend has reversed as the swing chart now
points up. The distance between entry and stop at C is the risk cost of the
trade.
7.
Calculate from point C the support levels the market will encounter as it
moves down according to the Gann levels of 1/8ths and 1/3rds of the price
range of A to B. The 50% level of the previous range is where most trades
fail as it is the strongest support and resistance level.
8.
Profits can be taken at 66.6% to 100% of the A to B range. If the market is
strong and moving fast place an exit stop below the low of each successive
day so as to protect profits when the market reverses.
 
 .

--- PAGE 32 of 148 ---

Page.31
1 day bar chart –mechanical trading method, short positions.
 
 .

--- PAGE 33 of 148 ---

Page.32
1 day swing chart –mechanical trading method, short positions.
 
 .

--- PAGE 34 of 148 ---

Page.33
4. Support and Resistance Levels
Every stock makes a top or bottom on some exact mathematical point in proportion to
some previous high or low level.
“The movement of any “market” between extreme high and extreme low, either in a 
major or a minor move, is very important and by a proper division of this range of
fluctuation, we determine the points where resistance or support will be met on a
reverse move, either up or down”.WD Gann.
Support and resistance price levels represent psychological areas where stronger buying
and selling can occur. These levels indicate support and resistance areas in a markets
movement. The main Fibonacci levels are at 23.6%, 38.2%, 50% and 61.8%, Gann
levels are the 1/8th and 1/3rd levels or 12.5%, 25%, 33.3% 37.5%, 50% 62.5%, 66.6%,
75% and 87.5% of a range.
The 50% level of price and time ranges was of great importance to Gann and is the first
division applied. It is stronger than the 1/8th and 1/3rd levels. The next important level is
the 66.6% level. There are variations in different markets. Some markets often retrace to
the 50% level. Others might frequently retrace 37.5% or 66.6%. These price levels are
drawn on the working chart.
With larger ranges, such as from a historical low to an all time high, the range can be
divided into 1/16ths.
The concept of dividing a whole into half of a half and one third parts and half of the
third is how Gann instructed ranges in time and price be divided. With the square of 144
or 20,736, to make use of this in markets trading at low prices it can be divided by 256
to obtain the number 81.
Gann’s explanation for dividing a circle or a whole was:
Why are the angles of 1/8 of a circle most important for time and space measurement?
Because we divide $1 into 1/4, 1/2, and 1/8 parts. We use 25c or 1/4, 50c or 1/2 dollar
and long years ago we had 12 ½ pieces. Figuring $100 as a basis for stock prices and
changing these prices to degrees, 12.5 will 45°, 25 will equal 90°, 37.5 will equal 135°,
50 will equal 180°, 62.5 will equal 225°, 75 will equal 270°, 87.5 will equal 315° and
100 will equal 360°.
As a general rule, when unsure as to which range to divide first, simply use the most
recent high and low prior to where the market is currently trading at. Next divide the
range from high to low previous to that. Dividing historical ranges from the all time low
to the major high should always be monitored. This can be done with a spreadsheet and
kept as a record to refer to, or by drawing these levels on the working chart.
 
 .

--- PAGE 35 of 148 ---

Page.34
Often a market will stop short of reaching a Fibbonacci or Gann percentage level. This
is because as price progresses it needs to complete a cycle, a proportionate part of a
cycle or reach a level that is symbolic of a cycle. A market will often find support at the
50% or other Gann or Fibbonacci percentage level as the range being related to will
have been a cycle or part of a cycle itself.
Dividing a range into 1/16ths can be useful as in the S&P 500 in the following chart.
This can be seen when the market traded up to the 56.25% or 9/16ths level of the 2000
to 2002 range of 807 points on the 3rd January 2005.
Historical ranges are very important as can be seen in the following chart of
Soybeans (CBOT) from July 1999 low to December 2004 highs.
 
 .

--- PAGE 36 of 148 ---

Page.35
Corn (CBOT) historical ranges divided by the Gann percentages.
Markets encounter support and resistance levels at the Gann levels as they retrace and
advance within past ranges.
 
 .

--- PAGE 37 of 148 ---

Page.36
Most charting applications will have a facility to adjust these levels, or they can be
drawn on a chart at the calculated levels.
You will have noticed that some Gann levels are very close to the Fibonacci levels.
They are so close it usually does not matter which you use.
The below chart of the S&P 500 shows three different ranges divided. Where there is
more than one support or resistance level close to each other then there will be greater
support or resistance around this area. The 50% level - the dashed line, is at a similar
level to the 25% main range level, the market on the first day closed near this level, was
supported the next day by it, and opened on two successive days near this level before
finally falling away. The main 50% level being close to the 100% minor level held the
market for 4 days before it finally was able to break through.
Past support levels can become new resistance levels and past resistance levels can
become new support levels.
 
 .

--- PAGE 38 of 148 ---

Page.37
5. Sections of the Market
Gann’s version of market advances and declines is similar to Elliot’s wave structure. 
Gann said always use the rule of “three” and the fourth section was important to watch 
for a change in trend. Elliot believed that there were three impulse waves with the
possibility of a fifth wave which would be Gann’s fourth section. In any market advance, 
either upward or in decline, watch for these sections or waves to complete.
In a typical campaign either in a Bull or Bear market there will run 3 or 4 sections. This
statement can be confusing unless you know whether to use a 1 month, 1 week or 1 day
chart. There is some subjectivity needed with many of Gann’s statements. Sometimes 
these charts will show clearly these sections but on occasions an “x” points swing chart 
will be useful to determine the sections.
In both a bull and bear market if there are two sections or waves, then there usually will
be more. This does not mean that the third will be successful. It means that three or
more sections will be attempted. This is what swing charts in their various formats will
tell you. If during an advance the swing ranges or waves are becoming weaker or
decreasing in time and price duration it means the market is changing its balance and
weakening. If during a bear market the swing ranges or waves down are decreasing in
time and price duration, then there is less selling, or more buying support, which can
indicate an end to the downward move is near.
Elliott wave theory is a popular market wave analysis method and it sometimes works
very well, usually in hindsight. A problem with it is that you can fall into the habit of
needing to label every wave and then have too rigid an expectation of the markets.
Gann’s market sections interpretation does not require such a fixed perspective. As a 
trader, when trading the swings as they present themselves according to the minor –1
day, and larger time frame – 2 day or weekly swing chart method you don’t need to 
know much more than where you are in the market, where your profit target is and stop
loss order is located.
 
 .

--- PAGE 39 of 148 ---

Page.38
Typical campaign section or wave structure
Firstly there is a rally from the bottom, than the market will fall back into the range of
the rally and settle on support levels.
The next rally starts and prices move into higher territory above the high of the first
advance and then it falls back to support levels.
A third rally commences and prices move to higher levels again above the high of the
second advance. This often is the end of the advances and can spell the end of the
advances altogether.
The fourth rally or attempt, is the most important to watch. In a strong market it will
succeed and in a weakening market it will fail and will form the first lower top which
can indicate the beginning of new trend in the opposite direction.
 
 .
 
S&P 500; 100 points swing chart showing the sections since the 1999 high to the 2003
low and up to the 2005 high.

--- PAGE 40 of 148 ---

Page.39
 
 .
 
Markets form a series of waves or sections that can be useful when anticipating an end
to a run of successive highs or lows as can be seen in the following charts, note that in
the first chart, in the first set of 3 waves, Wave 1 was 6 days down, wave 2 was 6 days
down and wave 3 was only 3 days down, or a 50% retracement in time. The arrow
shows the first higher low, coming off the main low.

--- PAGE 41 of 148 ---

Page.40
The following are WD Gann’s statements on interpreting a markets behaviour by
observation of its appearance.
Buying power greater than selling power: When a market advances, it advances on
buying and increased demand. Selling power greater than buying power: When the
supply exceeds the demand, and selling power is greater than buying power, it is
natural that prices must decline to a level where support or buying power will come in
and overbalance selling power.
Reactions are smaller at higher levels: In a Bull market reactions get smaller as
prices go higher, because optimism and hope increase after a prolonged advance.
Reactions are small because there are buying orders under the market as people are
waiting for reactions to buy. Therefore, do not expect large reactions at high levels until
final top has been reached. When the first reaction exceeds the last reaction in a Bull
market, you can figure that the trend has reversed temporarily.
Single top: Is where a market does not reach the same level a second time days, weeks
or months apart.
Single bottom: Is where a market declines to a low level making a bottom that does not
reach this same level again, days, weeks or months later.
It is these tops and bottoms that mark waves or main sections that are of more
importance when applying Gann angles, calculating time periods and the main
trend’s support and resistance levels.
 
 .
 
6. Market Patterns

--- PAGE 42 of 148 ---

Page.41
Often reactions to double bottoms and tops are greater than the more general rule of a
range repeating a similar amount. Markets will often react 150% to 200% off a double
or triple top or bottom if the reaction is in the direction of the main trend.
 
 .
 
Double tops and bottoms: A double top is when a price advances to a high level, then
reacts and advances again to the same level a second time. These double tops are
important if they occur weeks, months or years apart. The more time between the top
and bottom, the more important it is.

--- PAGE 43 of 148 ---

Page.42
Old tops and bottoms become resistance and support in the future. This will be found at
the horizontal axis and the diagonal with trend lines and Gann angles.
The following chart has been added 6 months after the above chart.
 
 .

--- PAGE 44 of 148 ---

Page.43
  
  
 
 
     
Triple tops and bottoms: Are the most important. By going over past records, you will
find that the greatest advances and declines, or those that last the longest start from
triple tops and bottoms.
Double tops and bottoms can occur in any time frame, from 1 minute to many years
apart. A double top or bottom that occurs in the direction of the main trend will usually
result in a greater reaction to the range that formed from the top to the lowest point in
the V or the bottom the highest point of the reversed V. They are valid even though the
tops or bottoms may not be exactly at the same level. The swing chart is the clearest
way to observe these patterns.
Higher bottoms and higher tops: Supply and demand govern market movements and it
requires a greater buying power than a selling power to force commodities to higher
levels. After commodities make bottom and start to advance, if they continue to make
higher bottoms and higher tops, the trend is up. They must make higher bottoms and
higher tops in order to show a strong Bull market. Therefore, it is very important to
watch the first, second, third and fourth higher bottoms, and remember to always use
the rule of three in everything. The third higher bottom is just as important as three
bottoms at the same level, because it shows that the market is gaining strength.
 
 .
 
Following is the daily view of the final, sharp decline in the preceeding weekly chart
showing the important technical aspects present before the decline.
Time cycle of 630° at 50% of 1260. “Time,Times andhalfaTime”(360+720+180)
Price cycle at 225% of 1260 from historical Low
Gann’sFatalnumberof490(49x10)
Price retracement at 66.6%
100% previous price range repeat

--- PAGE 45 of 148 ---

Page.44
Crossing old tops or breaking old bottoms: When a market crosses old tops it is an
indication of stronger buying power and change of trend. When a market breaks old
bottoms it indicates the trend has turned down.
 
 .
 
Lower tops and lower bottoms: After a market makes the final top and selling
pressure is greater than the buying pressure it must naturally decline and make lower
bottoms and lower tops.
The higher bottoms and higher tops at the left in the below chart clearly show the trend
is up. The lower highs and lower lows to the right in the below chart clearly show the
trend is down. These are the safest patterns to trade. By trading in the direction of the
trend, calculating the price support and resistance levels at these higher bottoms and
lower tops and determining the cycle that is present on these dates, it is not difficult to
trade the ranges and exiting at a predetermined percentage level.

--- PAGE 46 of 148 ---

Page.45
Secondary decline or higher bottoms: After a Bear campaign ends, making final
bottom, there is usually a quick rally. Then, the secondary reaction takes place, making
a higher bottom and this bottom is the safest place to buy. Never guess. If you guess,
you are likely to miss the bottoms and tops by many points. If you wait for definite
indication and follow rules you will get in near top and bottom.
 
 .
 
Secondary rally or lower top: After a prolonged advance and the market reaches final
high, there is usually a sharp severe decline. After that there is a secondary rally,
sometimes getting up near the old top and sometimes not reaching it by many points.
You will find that a market seldom fails to have this secondary rally. When the
secondary rally comes, especially after the trend has turned down, it is the safest rally
on which to sell short.

--- PAGE 47 of 148 ---

Page.46
An advancing market will encounter resistance levels at certain percentages of its last
advance. This means that the Gann levels of 12.5%, 25%, 33.3%, 37.5%, 50%, 62.5%,
66.6%, 75%, 87.5%, 100%, 112.5%, 125%, 133.3%, 137.5%, 150%, 162.5%, 166.6%,
175%, 187.5%, 200% etc; are used to determine future resistance levels. This can be
applied to any time frame, from intraday charts to yearly charts.
 
 .
 
7. Using a range to calculate a high price

--- PAGE 48 of 148 ---

Page.47
These levels can also become support levels as in the 150% level with the S&P 500 in
the following weekly chart.
S&P 500 Weekly Chart
British Pound Weekly Chart
 
 .

--- PAGE 49 of 148 ---

Page.48
A falling market will encounter support levels at certain percentages of its last range down.
This means that the Gann levels of 12.5%, 25%, 33.3%, 37.5%, 50%, 62.5%, 66.6%, 75%,
87.5%, 100%, 125% etc, of the previous range in the same direction will be areas to watch
for a decline to stop at and a retracement to begin from. When a market reaches one of
these percentages and this is also at a support or resistance level of a previous range, then
it is a more important level to be aware of. This can be applied to any time frame, whether
intraday charts or yearly charts.
 
 .
 
8. Using a range to calculate a low price

--- PAGE 50 of 148 ---

Page.49
British Pound Weekly Chart
US Dollar Daily Chart
 
 .

--- PAGE 51 of 148 ---

Page.50
Time counts commencing from the day of a past important high or low will show the
calendar days, solar degrees and when numbers are divided by seven, the number of
weeks. From a practical point of view this is the most difficult technique to apply to a
chart unless using hand drawn charts. What time counts do is keep you up to date with
the time periods and cycles that are vibrating from previous the high and low points.
There is no other way of knowing today, how many days or degrees there would be
since the October 2002 lows (US markets) or from every weekly turning point since
then, let alone since the 2000 highs without maintaining an ongoing record. Time counts
do this effectively and are extremely important.
The concept is that on the calendar day bar chart, by counting the days from a past high
or low point, when you arrive at certain numbers in calendar days and solar degrees (the
same number days and degrees will often be on different dates) that are to be monitored
as trend change dates, you then watch the price action on that day. If the market action
confirms that the cycle pressure date is working then a trade can be initiated if
supported by other analysis.
From the high or low point on the chart, just above the high, or below the low, you
would start the count at “0”. In increments of 4, 8 or 12, write in each number as 
follows, 0, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 108, 120, 132, 144, 156, 168, 180 etc until you
reach 1360 days. These numbers will also give you the approximate position of the date
on which to mark the solar degree times. To calculate the exact date you will need an
ephemeris which will give the degrees for each day of the month. Any number can be
used for the time count line such as 4, 12, 16, 24 or 30. The reason for using increments
of 12 is that there are many important numbers that are multiples of 12.
Every swing turn in a market is a reaction to a previous high or low. Each new high or
low will cause a new reaction. It is simplistic to assume that by only monitoring major
high and lows you will get only major highs and lows again. Any swing turn that
registers on a weekly chart can be used to commence a new time count from. There will
be occasions where from a past major turn you will not find reactions that are as useful
as some reactions obtained from what may appear to be an insignificant swing turn.
This is because there are many cycles vibrating within a market and by commencing a
time count from all weekly swing turns you will pick up most of them by the time the
chart has expanded to a reasonable size.
At each new turn on the chart note the numbers that are present on the time lines. You
will in time recognise certain numbers and how they are related to the important
numbers detailed in the ‘Time Cycles” section.
 
 .
 
9. Time Counts

--- PAGE 52 of 148 ---

Page.51
An important use of time counts is to monitor minor time ranges. The following chart
shows clearly this concept in the Australian Share Price Index with repeating time
ranges calculated by the time count lines.
 
 .
 
When you have more than one time count date vibrating from a past high or low, and
you find another date coinciding with this from a different reference point, such as at 90
degrees (88-92 days) and also a 120 degrees date, on a 168th or 49th day, or any other
combination of the above numbers, whether degrees or calendar days, it means that
there is different cycles that could cause a reaction on that day. The accompanying
charts show how these counts are applied.

--- PAGE 53 of 148 ---

Page.52
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
When a time count line arrives at a high or low point, underline this number. You will
soon come to recognise certain numbers and their divisions and multiples that
frequently appear at market turns.
These time ranges can also be applied intraday. By counting the one hour bars from past
highs and lows, you will find these repeating time ranges. 12 and its multiples are
common, as are 7 and 15.
 
 .
 
Usingtimerangeswithtimecyclesandpricelevelsenablesyoutoforma“picture”of
what may eventuate. You may have noticed in the above chart that the first 73 day time
range appears to start on a Friday which is not the low point on this chart. In the section
on“Markets”,thereismentionofexchangesanddatavendorsaddingtheovernight
trading sessions onto the following day. In this case, the low point came in on the
Friday night but appears as a low for the Monday. If this date was used to commence a
time count from no reactions would be found and you would be unaware of the
reactions from the correct date. When the market you trade has irregular trading hours
you will need to have access to intraday data to be sure of when the high or low was
made. This is important at the weekly turning points only.
The below daily chart of the US dollar shows repeating time ranges. These are not
natural time cycles, but are a time range that becomes habit forming, they can fade and
reappear and new time frames can appear. Time counts will keep you up to date with
these.

--- PAGE 54 of 148 ---

Page.53
Time counts when applied to the weekly chart will show the important cycle numbers
that are detailed in the “cycles” section, without the need for the daily chart. For
example in the 52nd / 53rd week is the 360th degree, in the 90th week you will calculate
the 631st day from the reference date where the time count commenced.
By monitoring time ranges you will see that when a market has repeated the same
amount of time or a percentage of the last time range, points of resistance are met.
If a market repeated a previous time range, and the previous price range was also
repeated, two points of resistance are met simultaneously. If this occurred at an
important cycle date, at a support or resistance level and a Gann angle was at this level
on this day, then it is likely a reversal will occur.
When applying these time counts to a swing chart note the calendar days as well as the
trading days. Sometimes a calendar day range will repeat but in the form of trading days.
A time range can subsequently appear as a price range or a price range can appear as a
time range as well. It is when major time ranges coincide with lesser degree time ranges
that important reversals occur.
In the following chart there are repeating time and price ranges, also 515 is 75% of the
Mars cycle and 229 is 33.3% of this cycle. What is shown is what can occur when
cycles or their percentages meet. Having the chart up to date enables you to be aware of
these events prior to them occurring.
 
 .
 
The reason for this habit forming behaviour of repeating time frames is that markets
have memories. Evidence of this phenomenon can be seen once again in the Australian
Share Price Index futures market chart below.
From its all time low of 458 in 1983, there was a bull market that peaked in 1987. The
final high point was at 2,387 making a total range of 1929 points! The 1929 crash high
on the DJIA was 386.5; The DJIA on the 7th March 2005 made a high at 10,987 (1987)
before reversing. Zeros and decimal divisions can be ignored. This indicates the
relevance of symbolism.

--- PAGE 55 of 148 ---

Page.54
The following chart shows the result of applying time counts to past highs and lows.
When there is an alignment of certain numbers from separate reference points in the
past it will indicate a date that has a cycle or a cycle division coinciding with other
cycles. These cycle “cluster” dates are of more importance.The numbers highlighted
are detailed in the sections on “cycles”
Time counts are best made in increments of 4, 8 or 12. With too large increments it is
easy to miss an important number.
 
 .

--- PAGE 56 of 148 ---

Page.55
The term “squaring”time and price means to balance time with price. In order to square
time with price proper division of a charts horizontal and vertical axis needs to be done.
Most charting software programs include Gann angles in their indicators list but it is
important to know how to apply them correctly.
After the vertical time resistance line and the horizontal price support and resistance
lines the next important line is the 1 x 1 angle or the line drawn from important highs
and lows that moves up or down at the rate of 1 point per day, week or month which
divides the space and time periods into two equal parts at the angle of 45 degrees.
The second important of these angles is the 2 x 1 angle or the line that moves up or
down at the rate of 2 points per day, week or month and divides the space between the
vertical axis and the 1 x 1 angle into two equal parts at 63.75 degrees.
The third important angle is the 4 x 1 angle or the line that moves up or down at the rate
of 4 points per day, week or month.
The fourth important angle is the 8 x 1 angle that moves up or down at the rate of 8
points per day, week or month.
There are 360 degrees in a circle and angles can be drawn at any one of these degrees.
All the important angles form between 0 and 90 degrees because 90 is straight up and
down and the most acute angle at which a market can rise
To draw a forward and upward direction Gann angle, from a low point, go out 100 days
and up 100 points, you mark this point on the chart and then draw a line between the
starting point and this mark, if the market trades at this line, either up to it, or down to it,
it can be treated the same way as a support or resistance level. To draw a downward
direction Gann angle, from a high point, count out 100 days and down 100 points, mark
this point on the chart and then draw a line between the starting point and this mark.
To apply this technique on a daily bar chart, it will work with both a calendar and
trading day chart, the chart must be correctly scaled, that is, for a 1 x 1 angle to divide a
chart at 45 degrees a 1 x 1 ratio chart must be used, or for every 1 day, the price scale
will need to be 1 point. It can become more complex when a market is at around 10,000
points so what you need to do is alter the scaling to something like 1 day x 8 points, the
1 x 1 angle would then be drawn at the ratio of 100 days and 800 points to maintain the
45 degree angle.
 
 .
 
10. Squaring Time with Price / Gann angles

--- PAGE 57 of 148 ---

Page.56
The below chart has been added two months later. It shows the reaction at this angle.
 
 .
 
Following is a daily chart of the Swiss Franc to February 2005. Using the 360 degree
circle and angles being applied at any one of these degrees, the chart shows angles at 1
point increments. A market will often work its way through the space between the
various angles. If this market falls to the same angle that supported the market in
September it would be in the same position in the circle even though it would be
numerically higher in value.

--- PAGE 58 of 148 ---

Page.57
For practical use on a daily chart, initially only apply the 1 x 1 angle that divides the
chart by 45 degrees. Other angles are then applied that match the markets trend as it
moves away from a high or low. This avoids the chart becoming cluttered. The main
angles of 1 x 1 , the 2 x 1 and 3 x 1 etc, can be applied as a guide to rate a new trend
once a new important low or high has been formed. Other angles can be applied as the
need arises otherwise the chart will have unnecessary lines.
With a weekly chart the angles are drawn at 1pt x 1wk, 2 pts x 1 wk, 3 pts x 1 week, etc.
 
 .
 
Below is a weekly chart of the British Pound showing a 1 point x 1 week angle and the
16 points x 1 week angle intersecting with the important high.

--- PAGE 59 of 148 ---

Page.58
From an important high or low by calculating out 100 days and then 100 points up or
down you will determine the first point of intersection, next calculate 200 days out and
then 200 points for the second point of intersection, then 300 days out and 300 points.
This method should be used when extending the angle as the chart grows, rather than
simply drawing the extension from the end of the line already drawn. Any number of
increments can be used depending on the chart size.
To ensure that Gann angles are drawn accurately the table at the end of this section can
be used as a guide to calculate the points of intersection. Add to the reference point
when the market is trending up and deduct from the reference point in a downward
trending market.
“As stocks advance and make higher bottom on the monthly, weekly or daily chart, you 
should always draw angles from higher bottoms. Then when you reach the last section
of a bull market and these important angles are broken from the last bottom you know
that the trend has turned down. Apply this same rule as a market declines. Draw your
angles from each lower top and watch your angles until the stock again crosses the 45°
angle from a second, third, or fourth lower top. The second lower top, or the second
higher bottom is always very important to draw angles from, and to measure time from”.
 
 .
 
Below is a daily chart of the S&P 500 daily chart showing various Gann angles. Note
how the market was not able to reach the 16 x 1 angle again before it fell away on the
3rd January 2005. Initially it had traded above this angle from the August low. The 9 x 1
angle from the intermediate high was the line of resistance until the final January high.

--- PAGE 60 of 148 ---

Page.59
 
 .
 
A variation of how time and price can align at reversal points is when time has traveled
a certain distance from a particular point and price has traveled the same distance, but
from a different point. Normally when time and price have traveled the same distance,
from the same reference point, time and price have squared at the ratio of 1 x 1. As
these squarings can be applied in other ratios such as 2 points x 1 day, 4 points x 1 day
or others, so can these other squarings. For example, if at 168 days, from a past weekly
reference point, price from a different past weekly reference point, had traveled 84
points, there would be a meeting of these parts of the cycles.
This can also occur, when from a past weekly reference point, when a time of 168 days
aligns with a price range of 52 points, or any of the many other variations of the cycles
parts and multiples in time and price.
What is occurring, is that cycles are aligning, which in their various forms is what
causes markets to react at certain points in time and price. These alignments occur daily
with intraday charts, daily, weekly and monthly in many forms. In conjunction with the
many cycles that are vibrating from past highs and lows, markets are subjected to many
points of support and resistance causing the volatility seen in markets.
The only way to be aware of these events is by monitoring the time ranges on the
various time count lines from past weekly turns and the price ranges between the
various highs and lows on the swing chart or the bar chart.
A recent example of time and price aligning from different reference points can be seen
in the following weekly and daily charts of the French CAC 40 index. Time in solar
degrees had traveled 50% of the price value.

--- PAGE 61 of 148 ---

Page.60
By monitoring the time count lines you can be aware of these alignments and the
balancing of cycles and their parts before the market trades into the dates.
The chart below of the Australian SPI shows the various alignments at an
important low in May 2004.
 
 .

--- PAGE 62 of 148 ---

Page.61
 
 .
 
A useful variation of Gann angles is to apply the weekly angle to the daily chart.
There are seven days in the week and by setting the horizontal axis count at 7 rather
than 1 and moving the vertical axis setting to follow the markets position that it is
trading near you will observe the daily support or resistance levels that are calculated by
the weekly angle.
Following is a daily chart that has the weekly angles applied.
Note the horizontal purple price levels. This cycle is detailed in the Time Cycles and the
Price Cycles section.

--- PAGE 63 of 148 ---

Page.62
S&P 500
1 pt x 1 day
down
1574
High
3/24/2000
100 days out
7/02/2000
100 points
down
1474
200 days
10/10/2000
200 points
1374
300 days
1/18/2001
300 points
1274
2 pt x 1 day
down
1574
High
3/24/2000
100 days out
7/02/2000
200 points
down
1374
200 days
10/10/2000
400 points
1174
300 days
1/18/2001
600 points
974
3 x 1
4 x 1
1 pt x 1 day up
767.50
Low
10/10/2002
100 days out
1/18/2003
100 points up
867.5
200 days
4/28/2003
200 points up
967.5
300 days
8/06/2003
300 points up
1067.5
2 pt x 1 day up
767.50
Low
10/10/2002
100 days out
1/18/2003
200 points up
967.5
200 days
4/28/2003
400 points up
1167.5
300 days
8/06/2003
600 points up
1367.5
3 x 1
4 x 1
 
 .

--- PAGE 64 of 148 ---

Page.63
On a chart scaled at one unit of price to one unit of time, if you were to draw a square
starting with a vertical line up from zero to the high price to be squared, then
horizontally forward the identical units of time, then vertically back down to zero, a
square will be formed. The forward vertical line will measure a square in time, of the
units of the high price.
These squares of price to time are areas to look for a counter trend reaction to price
movement. The Gann percentages are to be monitored also as well as multiples of the
first square.
A high price of 100 would square out time 100 days forward from the date of the high.
On a weekly chart it will be 100 weeks, on a monthly chart it will be 100 months.
The S&P 500 on the 24th March 2000, made a high price of 1574. Using this high price
and dividing it by 1/8ths and 1/3rds and converting these values to days will give the dates
projected forwards of:
25% of 1574 = 393 days = 21st April 01
50% of 1574 =787 days = 20th May 02 high (2 days early)
62.5% of 1574 = 983 days = 2nd December 02 high.
75% of 1180 days = 17th June 03 high.
The above explanation can be related back to cycles. The S&P 500 high price of March
2000 at 1574 is 1260 plus 315. You will find that also at the division of this number
there was at 630 days (50% x 1260) the 14th Dec 01 a weekly low and also at the 945
degree date on the 13th Nov 02 there was also a weekly low. This cycle is detailed in
later sections.
 
 .
 
11. Squaring a High price

--- PAGE 65 of 148 ---

Page.64
On a chart scaled at one unit of price to one unit of time, if you were to draw a square
starting with a vertical line up from zero to the low price to be squared, then
horizontally forward, the identical units of time, then vertically back down to zero a
square will be formed. The forward vertical line will measure the first square of time of
the low price
A low price of 100 will square out in time 100 days forward from the date of the low.
On a weekly chart it will be 100 weeks and on a monthly chart it will be 100 months.
The S&P 500 low on the 10th October 2000 was at 767.5. Using this low price, and
dividing it by 1/8ths and 1/3rds and converting these values to days will give the dates
projected forward of;
12.5% of 767.5 or 95 days = 13th January 03 high.
62.5% of 767.5 or 480 days = 2nd February 04 high.
66.6% of 767.5 or 512 days = 5th March 04 high.
87.5% of 767.5 or 673 days = 13th August 04 low.
When a market encounters a support or resistance level in the future related to a
previous high or low price it is because that high or low was a numerical value related
to a cycle. The proportionate parts or Gann percentages of a cycle or its parts will then
become points of support or resistance.
 
 .
 
12. Squaring a Low price

--- PAGE 66 of 148 ---

Page.65
When squaring lows and highs in time, we project forward the units of price, converted
to time units. We do the same when squaring a price range in time. First we measure the
units moved from either a low to a high, or a high to a low, and then calculate forward
from the turning point of that range in the increments of 1/8th and 1/3rd of that range.
The S&P500 high on the 24th March 2000, made a range of 1412.45 from 161.55 in
December 1984. Using this price range and dividing it by 1/8ths and 1/3rds gives the
values of 176.5 and 471. Converting these values to days projected forward from the
24th March 2000 will give the dates where reactions occurred at:
37.5% of 1412.45 or 529 days = 4th September 01 lower high.
62.5% of 1412.45 or 882 days = 22nd August 02 high. (1 day over)
100% of 1412.45 or 1412 days = 5th February 04 low. (1 day early)
112.5% of 1412.45 or 1589 days = 2nd August 04 high. (1 day early)
125% of 1412.45 or 1765 days = 23rd January 05 low.
This same technique also applies to a range measured from a high to a low.
From a high to a low or low to a high is a cycle, part of a cycle or multiple of cycles.
Markets progress in time a number of units related to cycles. Markets progress in price
to a value related to cycles. Consequently when a market turns at a point in the future
related to a previous range it is because that range was a cycle or a part of a cycle and
therefore the divisions of that cycle will be points of support or resistance in the future.
 
 .
 
13. Squaring a Range

--- PAGE 67 of 148 ---

Page.66
From any extreme low level use the low level as a base and use the percentages of this
base to determine resistance points from tops to bottoms on the way up. By using the
percentage of the tops you can determine resistance points or bottoms on the way down.
The accompanying table shows how to calculate these levels. You will find that most
markets base numbers are related to important cycles. 458 in the following SPI chart is
66.6% of 687, the Mars orbit cycle and the S&P 500 1984 low at 161.25 is 1/8th of 1290.
Australian Share Price Index percentages of the low.
The below diagram was added 2 months after the above.
 
 .
 
14. Percentages of highs and lows

--- PAGE 68 of 148 ---

Page.67
When a market encounters a support or resistance level in the future related to a high or
low price it is because that high or low price was a numerical value related to a cycle.
The proportionate parts or Gann percentages of a cycle or its parts will then become
points of support or resistance.
S&P percentages of the High and Low table
Market
S&P
500
Date
High /
Low
Price
12.50%
25%
33.30%
37.50%
50%
62.50%
66.60%
75%
87.50%
100%
Mar-00
high
less
%
1574
1377.3
1180.5
983.75
787
590.25
Mar-01
low
add
%
May-01
high
less
%
Sep-01
low
add
%
Mar-02
high
less
%
Oct-02
low
add
%
767.5
863.44
959
1023.1
1055.3
1151.3
1247.2
Dec-02
high
less
%
Mar-03
low
add
%
Mar-04
high
less
%
Aug-04
low
add
%
Mar-05
high
less
%
 
 .
 
S&P 500 percentages of the 767.50 / 2002
low.

--- PAGE 69 of 148 ---

Page.68
In WD Gann’s Stock market course it is stated;
“Every movement in the market is the result of a natural law and of a cause which 
exists long before the effect takes place and can be determined years in advance… 
Everything moves in cycles as a result of the natural law of action and reaction. By a
study of the past, I have discovered what cycles repeat in the future. In order to be
accurate in forecasting the future you must know the major cycle as the most money is
made when extreme fluctuations occur.
Great Cycle –Master Time Period –60 years.
This is the greatest and most important cycle of all, which repeats every 60 years or at
the end of the third 20 year cycle. You will see this importance of this by referring to the
war period from 1861 to 1869 and the panic following 1869; also 60 years later –1921
to 1929, the greatest bull market in history followed.
50 year Cycle.
The major cycle of stocks occurs every 49 to 50 years. A period of “jubilee” years of 
extreme high or low prices, lasting from 5 - 7 years occur at the end of the 50 year cycle.
30 year cycle.
The 30 year cycle is very important because it is ½ of the 60 year cycle and contains
three 10 year cycles. It is caused by the planet Saturn. This planet makes one revolution
around the Sum every 30 years. Saturn rules the products of the Earth and causes
extreme high or low in prices at the end of each 30 year cycle
20 year Cycle.
One of the most important time cycles is the 20 year cycle, or 240 months and most
stocks and averages work closer to this cycle than any other.
15 year Cycle.
15 years is ¾ of a 20 year cycle and important because it is 180 months or ½ of 360.
10 year Cycle.
The next important cycle is the 10 year cycle. It is important because it is 120 months or
1/3 of 360. Fluctuations of the same nature occur which produce high or low every 10
years.
7 year Cycle.
This cycle is 84 months. You should watch 7 years from any important top or bottom. 42
months is or ½ of this cycle is very important. You will find many culminations around
the 42nd month. 21 months or ¼ this cycle is also important.
The minor cycles are 6 years and 3 years, the smallest cycle is 1 year.
 
 .
 
15. Time Cycles

--- PAGE 70 of 148 ---

Page.69
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
From a practical point of view a trader needs to know when the more common day to
day and weekly reversals will occur. The time periods and cycles that are required to be
monitored to do this are explained in this section. Always remember it is the
combination of time and price factors that is required when determining market
reversals.
The common cycles we are familiar with are those that affect us in our regular activities,
such as the 1 minute or 60 seconds, hourly or 60 minutes, daily or 24 hours, weekly or
168 hours and the yearly 365.25 days or 360 degrees. You will often see these numbers
and their multiples in time and price movements in markets. There are numerous other
cycles that have an effect on us whether we are aware of them or not. In 1 day there is
1440 minutes, or 4 x 360.
 
 .
 
These cycles are to be found in markets, however for a trader their practical use can be
limited as they usually are not able to be accurately forecasted. The cycles that are able
to be accurately calculated are detailed in the following pages.
“Itneverpaystoguess.Alwaysconsiderthemaintimeswingofamarket,thenwatch
your weekly and overnight charts until they show a reversal or time has expired. All
markets move in three to four sections. The third or fourth movement up or down marks
theculmination.”
The above statement means to use time and price together. By using the techniques;
“balancingoftime”,“sectionsofthemarket”,“timecycles”,and“pricecycles”together,
and taking into account the major time cycles, it is possible to accurately determine
major tops and bottoms. If you look at the March 21 high in the Australian S&P 200
detailed in the“Reversal Date Analysis”section, an important time factor present at this
datewasthatitwasat5yearsorthe25% divisionofGann’s20yearcyclefromthe
March 2000 high. This chart is following.

--- PAGE 71 of 148 ---

Page.70
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
   
 
 
  
  
    
   
 
 .
 
The 7 year cycle when precisely analysed, is one of the two most important cycles a
trader can make use of. It is exactly 2556 days. It is close to the 360 week cycle or 2520
days. Also 2520 days or 360 weeks when calculated in solar degrees is very close to the
7 year cycle of 2556 days. There is some overlap of these various cycles when
calculated in weeks or months. This is likely why the 7 year cycle is often mentioned
today but not easily able to be precisely calculated. WD Gann was aware of this yet did
not detail this in his courses. He did hint at these numbers in some of his other works.
In the supplemental section at the back of this manual Gann mentions the 7 year cycle in
the sections from his stock market course. There is no breakdown of this cycle as in the
preceding paragraph. It is apparent he informed his students of this information in the
private tuition he provided.
Gann stated; “Inmakingmycalculationsonthestockmarket,oranyfutureevent,Iget
the past history and find out what cycle we are in and then predict the curve for the
future, which is a repetition of past market movements,…remember time is the most
important factor of all factors and not until sufficient time has expired does any big
move up or down start. The time factor will overbalance both space and volume. When
time is up, space movement will start and big volume will begin either up or down”.
For the purpose of this course the past history to reference is the exact day of the turn
within a past weekly reversal. The cycles and their divisions are then calculated from
these dates by use of the time count lines, this will then enable exact dates to be
calculated in the future where reversals can occur.
Therearethecyclesthatareuniqueandrepeataswithtimerangesinthe“timecount”
section. There are the symbolic cycles that have their origins in ancient times. As Gann
oftenquotedfromthebible;“thereisnonewthingunderthesun”and“historyrepeats”.
There are planetary, lunar and solar cycles that also have their influence. The lunar
cycle of 28 days is 672 hours or 3 x 224 (Venus) or 4 x 168 (hours in a week).
It is not important that the original form remains the form in which they can
subsequently reappear. An example of this is in the hours of our week, there are 168
hours in our week and consequently 168 can symbolically appear in any other time
period such as 168 minutes, days, degrees, weeks, months or years. The 168 can appear
as $16.80, $168.00 or 16,800 days, degrees, cents or points. A market will often find
resistance or support around these numbers. In the S&P 500, 1176 or 168 x 7 is often a
level this market stalls at. Itisworthrememberingthisinterpretationofacycle’s
number as they appear in markets frequently. This concept appears to be derived from
thebiblicalterm“Iwillappointadayforayearandayearforaday”.Simply put it
doesn’tmatterhowthenumberislabelled,itisthenumberthatisimportant.
Markets react to time cycles and they also react to price cycles. Before any major trend
reversal occurs, cycles will need to have aligned. So when price ranges, price levels,
time cycles and a time range are in alignment then the market has achieved the balance
needed before a reversal occurs.
On occasions where a cluster of cycles are calculated on two or three consecutive days
or over a weekend and the trend is indeterminate it is often best to wait and let the
market make its intentions clear.

--- PAGE 72 of 148 ---

Page.71
 
365.25 days / 360 degrees
 
 .
 
The Master 360 Cycle
All cycles are 360 degrees. The quarter and third parts as in Gann’ssquare and triangle
within the circle are the most important parts of a cycle. These divisions for the square
are 90°, 180°, 270° and 360°, for the triangle at 120°, 240° and 360°. The minor
divisions are the 45° or the 1/8th parts and the 30° or 1/12th parts.
The 1 year or 365.25 day cycle when calculated as 360 solar degrees is a very useful
cycle with which to time a markets future turns. A market will often react to the 30 and
45 degree sections of this cycle from past turning points. As with most elements of
technical analysis some type of filter is useful so as to gain what is most relevant. When
calculating cycles, commencing time counts from only important past high or low
points is what is commonly performed. However, each past weekly turning point will
cause a reaction in the future at one or more of the divisions of the Gann emblem of the
numerous cycles present in markets. These past turns were a reaction to an earlier event
and by calculating from all weekly turns you will pick up most of the cycles.
A cycle can be divided into twelve equal parts of 30°, as in the twelve signs of the
zodiac, and eight equal parts of 45°. For practical usage the quarters or 90° increments,
and thirds or 120° increments are most important.
As with the Gann percentages of eighths and thirds being applied to price ranges, these
percentages can be applied to time ranges or cycles as well.

--- PAGE 73 of 148 ---

Page.72
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 .
 
Dividing of Time
The dividing of cycles is derived from the concept of all cycles being a 360 degree
circle. Using our Earth as an example there are 365.25 days in its yearly cycle around
the Sun. When it is viewed as a 360 degree circle and dividing this into its quarter and
third parts of 90 degrees, 180 degrees, 270 degrees, 120 degrees, 240 degrees and 360
degrees, you obtain the six important parts of this circle or a square and triangle within a
circle. Thenumber“7”isthebasisoftime.Tochangefroma minor cycle such as the 1
year cycle to the next larger cycle you multiply by 7. In the case of 90° x 7 you get 630°,
or with 168 days x 7 you get 1176 days or 168 weeks.
The Earth revolves around the Sun in an elliptical path, this means that the distance
from the sun is not constant. This is why days and degrees are not always the same. One
half of the Earths orbit can be 179 days and the other half can be 186 days.
Gann’sdescriptionofdividingtheyearis…..
Divide the year by 2 to get 6 months or 180° angle which equals 26 weeks.
Divide the year by 4 to get the 3 months period, 90 days or 90° each which is ¼ of a
year or 13 weeks.
Divide the year by 3 to get the 4 months period, the 120° angle which is 1/3rd of a year
or 17 1/3 weeks to get 45 days or the 45° angle. This is also 6½ weeks, which shows
why the 7th week is always so important.
Divide the year by 16 which gives 22 ½ days or approximately 3 weeks.
As with the Gann percentages of eighths and thirds applied to price projections, such as
125% or 150%, once a full 360 degrees has been reached, the count can continue in
increments of 30 degrees to become 360 degrees plus 30 degrees, or 390 degrees, then
420 degrees, 450 degrees, 480 degrees, 510 degrees and 540 degrees etc. When 630
degrees is reached the wheel within the wheel concept has its effect, as 175% of 360
degrees is also one quarter or 90 degrees of 360 weeks.
As with the 90 and 120 degree increments of 360 degrees being most important, then
with 360 plus 90 being 450 degrees, and 360 plus 120 being 480 etc. these are the more
important.
With this cycle, solar degree measurements are stronger than calendar day counts. The
365.25 Earth cycle days cannot be divided by 360 to obtain the value of one degree. An
Ephemeris must be used to find the exact degree in the month. The important divisions
are the 90, 120, 180, 240, 270, 360 degrees sections plus 90 and 120 degree increments.
This concept, when taken to the next level orthe“wheelwithinthewheel”isthe360
week cycle or 2520 days or degrees. This cycle can be divided in the same way as the
one year cycle. The one quarter and one third parts of this cycle are 630° and 840°.
Where you have the quarter and third parts of the 360° cycle and the quarter and third
parts of the 2520° cycle aligning on the same day, it will be an important time to
monitor for a reversal. The 90, 120, 180, 240, 270, 360, 630, 840, 900 and 1260 degree
times from a past reference point are the most useful.

--- PAGE 74 of 148 ---

Page.73
One year cycle and 90, 180, 270 and 360 degree divisions in the S&P E mini
The one year cycle and 60 degree divisions in the British Pound
 
 .

--- PAGE 75 of 148 ---

Page.74
Cycle of 168
There are 168 hours in the week. This is an important time period to monitor. Divisions
of 168 to be monitored are, 21, 42, 63, 84, 105, 126 and 147, as well as its multiples of
189, 210, 252, 315, 336, 420, 504, 588, 630 and 672 to 1344. 210 is 30° of 2520, 252 is
1/10th, 315 is 12.5% or 1/8th, 588 is ½ of 168 weeks, 630 is 90° or 1/4 of 2520 and 672
is 3 x 224, the Venus cycle number.
DJIA daily chart from December 2002 to June 2003.
 
 .
 
The following is a daily chart of the British Pound showing 120 degrees of the 360
degree cycle. The low in this case gave a high. There is no correlation between lows and
highs with these cycles.

--- PAGE 76 of 148 ---

Page.75
The S&P 200 weekly chart below shows a 168 week time period aligning with the two
important parts of 90° and 180° of the one year cycle of 360°. Note also, at this time
alignment there was the combined price ranges of 627 and 211 points being 33.3% of
the 2520 or 360 week cycle. You will be aware of this type of information in advance
by ensuring the chart is maintained in advance of where a market is currently trading at.
 
 .
 
The weekly chart of NYMX Gold below shows 8 x 168 aligning with 50% of the 1 year
cycle in degrees and 50% of 1336 days at the November 2004 high.

--- PAGE 77 of 148 ---

Page.76
 
 .
 
To obtain accuracy with time cycles when applied to markets it is necessary to count the
cycle in calendar days or solar degrees rather than using weeks. Weekly counts can be
used on the weekly chart, but you must calculate from the exact date within the
reference week.
As with all cycles the first two quarters and one third are usually more important as time
tends to dissipate the cycles effectiveness.
The 7 year cycle:
The 7 year cycle is 84 months or 365.14 weeks, very close to the Earths orbit number.
At 2556 days, the one quarter divisions are 639 days, 1278 days, 1917 days and 2556
days. The one third divisions are 852 days and 1704 days. Gann in his courses said to
watch for turns in the 42nd and 43rd month. 1278 days is almost 42 months.
The 360 week cycle:
This is 83 months or 2520 days which is very close to the 7 year cycle of 2556 days. It
can be calculated in solar degree and calendar days. 630 solar degrees is ¼, 1260 solar
degrees is ½, 1890 solar degrees is ¾, 840 solar degrees is 1/3 and 1680 is 2/3rds. This
cycle in days is 631, 1262, 1893, 840, 1680, and 2524 days. 1262 days is a little over 41
months and 1260 degrees is within a few days of 1278 days or 50% of the 7 year cycle.
The 20 year cycle:
This cycle is 240 months in duration, or 2/3rds of 360 months or 30 years. With cycles of
this magnitude the accuracy found with the one year cycle, the 360 week and 7 year
cycle and other cycles detailed here is not as precise. For a trader it is not realistic to
take a position using a 1 week to monthly window in which to expect a market to
reverse. This cycle works out to about 7315 days or 1045 weeks.

--- PAGE 78 of 148 ---

Page.77
Venus cycle of 224
Divisions to be monitored are; 56, 112, 168, 224, 280, 336, 392, 448, 504, 560, 616, 672,
896, 1120 and 1344. This planetary cycle is very close to 2/12ths or 60 degrees of one
of the key cycles detailed further on.
 
 .
 
Mercury cycle of 88
Divisions and multiples to be monitored are; 88, 132, 176, 220, 264, 308, 352, 396, 440,
484, 528 etc. Often 90 degrees of the 1 year cycle will be on the same day as an 88 day
period meaning a date of greater significance.

--- PAGE 79 of 148 ---

Page.78
1262 day cycle
S&P E-mini weekly chart from 19th July 2001 to 1st January 2005; important divisions
at the one quarter and one third sections are 315, 420, 631, 840, 945 and 1262 days. The
1/8th part is 156 and 1/12th is 105. 1262 days is a little over 41 months.
 
 .
 
Mars cycle of 687
S&P 500 weekly chart from Nov 2001 to Sept 2003;
The one quarter and one third divisions at 171, 229, 343, 458, 515 and 687 days and
degrees are important, as well as multiples of these numbers. 49 x 7 or 343 weeks is 686
days. Often these numbers are present at important reversals.

--- PAGE 80 of 148 ---

Page.79
1260 degree cycle
S&P 500 from 2nd July 2001 to 1st Jan 2005; important divisions are 315 - 30wks, 420
–60 wks, 630 –90 wks, 840 –120 wks, 945 - 135 wks and 1260 –180 wks.
 
 .
 
631 day cycle
S&P 500 (50% of 1262 days)

--- PAGE 81 of 148 ---

Page.80
1336 day cycle
Most often works out to 1336 days or degrees exactly, however often there will be a
reversal between 1332 and 1336 days or degrees.
The 1/8th or 45 degree divisions are 167, 334, 501, 668, 835, 1002, 1169 and 1336
days or degrees. The 1/12th or 30 degree divisions are 111, 223, 334, 445, 557,
668, 780, 891, 1002, 1113, 1224 and 1336 days or degrees.
 
 .
 
630 degree cycle
Light Crude weekly chart. 630 degrees is approximately 91 weeks, 639 days or 90
degrees of the 7 year cycle is a little over 91 weeks.

--- PAGE 82 of 148 ---

[OCR] Calendar: Days: 1332/1

668 day cycle

50% of 1336

Page 81

--- PAGE 83 of 148 ---

Page.82
668 degrees cycle
S&P E-mini weekly chart. Reactions can often occur at 666 days (symbolically
significant) and 672 days which is 3 x 224 (Venus cycle) and
4 x 168 (hours in a week)
 
 .
 
1336 degrees cycle
Often a market will react at the 1/8th division of 167 days or degrees. On occasions the
168th (detailed earlier) day or degree will.

--- PAGE 84 of 148 ---

Page.83
852 days
S&P weekly chart from the major high.
852 days is 33.3% of 2556, or the number of days in 365.25 weeks, (Earth cycle) or the
7 year cycle. 1631 days is 233 weeks; 233 is the 12th number in the Fibonacci series.
 
 .
 
1290 day cycle
The important divisions are the 1/8ths of 161.25 with the 50% at 645 days. The 1/12th
divisions are 107.5. 1/3rd is 430, 2/3rds is 860. Often the reaction will occur at the 644th
day. As with all cycles the quarters, 25% or 90 degree parts and the third, 33.3% or 120
degree parts are most important.

--- PAGE 85 of 148 ---

Page.84
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 .
 
The 1 year when calculated as 360 degrees is a minor cycle, but at times a market can
react very well to the 90, 120, 180, 240, 270 and 360 degree vibrations from a past
weekly high or low.
The 90 and 120 degree sections can be extended out until at least 2520 degrees, which is
then 360 weeks in degrees, 900 and 1200 degrees are the one quarter and one third
divisions of 3600 degrees. This is the concept of the wheel within the wheel.
All these numbers whether as a whole, parts or multiples regularly appear in markets in
time and in price movements. Where there are a number of cycles culminating on the
same day it is a time of greater importance.
The two cycles of most use to a trader are derived from the biblical terms of “atime,
timesandhalfatime”,the ancient Hebrew year of 360 + (360 + 360) + (½ x 360) =
1260. Thisisanimportantsymbolic“time”fromtheBible.
The other is to be found in the biblical term “blessedishethatwaiteth,andcomethto
thethousandthreehundredandfiveandthirtydays”or 1335 days. This is an
equallyimportantsymbolic“time”.
Other biblical numbers that appear in markets in time and price are 390, 430, 490, 666,
888, 1150 and 2300. You will see the combined price ranges from 24 Jan 05 to the 17
June 05 totaling a cycle of 2300 in the DJIA at the supplementary information section
further on.
The frequent appearance of these cycles throughout history is proof that the timing of
events is more than coincidence. Some well known events in recent history that are
examples of the cyclical nature of our existence include the following.
It was reported in the Wall St Journal on the 19th November 1860 that “itwasagloomy
dayonWallSt,paperwasnotnegotiable”3600weeksforwardbringsyoutolate1929.
From Armistice Day at the end of WW1 on the 11th November 1918, to the day of the
Normandy landings on the 6th of June 1944 it was 9,339 days or 1334.5 weeks.
From the 7th December 1941, the day of the Pearl Harbor bombing by the Japanese,
until the Hiroshima bombing on the 6th of August 1945 there were 1338 days or 191
weeks, the anagram of 191 is 9/11.
In more recent times there has been the September 11 incident. The numbers 9/11 being
involved could appear to be a coincidence. When you take into account that the Madrid
train bombings in 2004 caused 191 fatalities and from the London train bombings on 7th
July 2005 less 1336 days results in the date of 9th November 2001 or 9/11/01 it adds an
intruiging perspective on what may actually be responsible for the events in our world.
From the start of our AD calendar, plus 1336 years and half of 1336 years, or 668 years,
a total of 2004 years, results in the 25th December 2004. One day off the exact 2004
years was the second worst earthquake in recent history in Asia. The other was in 1556
in China when 830,000 people died, from 1556 to 2004 is 448 years or two times 224,
the number related to the cycle of Venus.

--- PAGE 86 of 148 ---

Page.85
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 .
 
Also of interest, considering that many numbers that appear in our markets today having
had their origins in biblical Hebrew times, is the fact that from the birth of Christ until
1948, the year in which modern Israel was founded there were 1,948 years or 1,262 +
343 + 343 years. 343 is 7 times 49, the number 49 was often quoted by WD Gann as
being the fatal number.
Often the number 49 and its multiples appear in time and price ranges. In the case of the
S&P 200 in Australia, from the record high at the time, on the 14th February 2002 to the
low on 13th March 2003 it was 392 days or 8 x 49.
Once familiar with these numbers and the variations of them, such as their percentages
and multiples you will see them in the markets in price ranges, time ranges and absolute
numbers such as the historical high on the DJIA on the 14th January 2000 at 11,840
points, what you have here is 11 times 1000 plus 840. 840 is one third or 33.3% of 2520
which is the number of days in 360 weeks. The DJIA on the 10th of October 2002 at the
major low point of 7,180 points is 7 x 1000 plus 180 or 1/2 of 360.
It is academic as to the origin of these numbers, and why they are documented in the
bible. If they can be used in markets to accurately predict dates in the future, then that is
what we will do. When conversion of the important numbers to current day usage is
done, the 1260 stays as 1260 degrees and in days becomes 1262, the half is 630 degrees
and in days 631. The 1335 becomes 1336 days or degrees and the half is 668 days or
degrees.
Usingtheconceptof“atime,timesandhalfatime”orthreeandahalftimesatime
period, good results can be obtained, for example the 360 day Hebrew year becomes
1260.Thereisafurtheradjustmenttothisnumberofa“leap”monthof 30 days, which
thenbecomes1290daysordegrees,asymbolicHebrewyearwiththe“leap”month
added is 390 days or degrees. 1336 days x three and a half will become 4,676 days or
degrees. Another very useful number is 672. This is 3 times 224 and 4 times 168.
In summary the cycles of 1262 days and its solar degree equivalent of 1260 degrees, the
number 1290 is the 1260 with a leap month of 30 days added to give 1290. 1336 days
and its solar degree equivalent of 1336 degrees are the most important numbers to know.
Their parts as calculated by the 1/8th, 1/12th and 1/3rd divisions are also to be monitored.
By applying time counts to the daily bar chart at the weekly highs and lows and by
maintaining them in advance of where the market is currently trading you will be aware
of dates in the future where reversals are likely to occur.
Further analysis of the market for pattern and price factors using price cycles and
support and resistance levels when close to these dates is required to determine if a
trading opportunity will become available.

--- PAGE 87 of 148 ---

Page.86
The following chart of the French CAC 40 shows the major high on the 8th April 2005
and some of the time and price factors present.
Most importantly the 1336 degree cycle from the 25th July 2001 was present at this
important high. 171 days or 25% of the Mars cycle and the 168 day time period are also
shown at minor reversals.
An unusual in concept but commonly appearing form of balancing a time with a price
can be seen at this high when a 345 degree time period aligned with a 690 point price
range or 2 x 345 originating from different points.
 
 .
 
Below is a weekly chart of the Australian S&P 200. The 1262 day cycle and the 1260
degree cycle both were present when this market reversed

--- PAGE 88 of 148 ---

Page.87
Cycles in calendar days are easily calculated by setting up a spreadsheet with the cycle
numbers added to the reference dates. By making a list of the day of the monthly highs
and lows and adding the cycles to these dates you will determine the most important
cycle dates. Do the same with the weekly highs and lows. On the dates where there is a
“cluster” or combination of cycle dates then that will be a more important date to 
monitor.
Cycles calculated in solar degrees most often work out to be different to the calendar
day count dates. In each zodiac sign there are 30° or 360° in the year. To calculate 630°
you will find the same degree date as the degrees of the reference date but 21 months
later. To calculate 668° you will find the same degree date 22 months later for 660° and
then add another 8°. An ephemeris is required for this.
In the following monthly charts of the S&P 200 the vertical blue and purple lines clearly
show the ¼ parts of the 3600 week cycle or 6,310 days and the 1/8th parts of the 3,817
week cycle or 20 x 1336. Being a monthly chart the exact dates are sometimes days or
even weeks inaccurate.
 
 .

--- PAGE 89 of 148 ---

Page.88
Below is the same chart with the 6300, 3340 and 4676 (668 weeks) solar degree cycles
applied. 3150 is 1/8th of 25,200 days or 3,600 weeks. 3340 is ¼ of 13360 days.
Biblical interpretation of numbers allows for decimals and zeros to be ignored.
A method of monitoring a markets time ranges according to the key cycles and their
divisions is by hand drawing the type of charts in the below diagrams.
 
 .

--- PAGE 90 of 148 ---

Page.89
The highlighted area shows the 50% or 180° division of the one year cycle aligning at
Gann’s 5/8th or 62.5% level at 168 weeks after completing three sections or waves up to
form a “first lower top” that Gann stated was the safest place to “sell”.
 
 .
 
At the end of each range, minor or major, add the preceeding range/s together. When a
number is arrived at according to the important cycle numbers or their divisions it is a
point to watch for a reversal. Always include in the time and price cycle analysis the
position of the market or the wave structure before determining if it is likely to be a
minor or major reversal.

--- PAGE 91 of 148 ---

Page.90
The orbital cycle of the earth is why there is seasonal change. These changes often
affect the behaviour of human nature as the climate changes from warm to cold. Due to
weather inconsistency, some years are times of plenty and others are years of shortage.
Consequently, prices will rise and fall over a period of time and will form a cyclical
pattern. An example of this seasonality is the way the cost of Oil rises during cold
weather.
The ninety degree annual astrological dates are strong times for change. Their
significance is greater when other planetary cycles such as full and new moons,
planetary conjunctions or oppositions coincide with these times.
These four times of the year are when the sun crosses the equator, at the March equinox
or zero degree cardinal point of the year, which is the 21st –22nd of March. The next is
when the Sun crosses the equator into the Southern Hemisphere, when night and day
have equal length. This is the 180 degree cardinal point on the 21st –22nd of September.
The June 21 - 22 solstice is when the Sun reaches its highest position in the sky over the
Northern Hemisphere. This is the longest day of the year and at the 90 degree cardinal
point of the year. December 21 - 22 solstice is when the Sun reaches its lowest position
in the sky over the Northern Hemisphere. This is the shortest day of the year and the
270 degree cardinal point in the year. These dates are important to watch as they often
signal a cyclic change in the markets. There are two other times of the year that are also
important. The perigee and apogee, these are the times when the Earth is at its closest
and most distant from the Sun.
The astrological year begins at the March equinox or the zero degree date. This is when
the Sun crosses the equator to the Northern Hemisphere. From this date, as with the
twelve signs of the zodiac, each month is thirty degrees in progression until the full
cycle of 360 degrees is complete. These zero degree dates each month are possible
times for changes in a markets trend, especially if other cyclical time and price analysis
is present.
If these times coincide with other planetary phenomena, or the other important cycles,
they have a stronger significance for change, as with new or full moons and solar
eclipses. The March equinox is often a time of change in various markets.
 
 .
 
16. Seasonal Time

--- PAGE 92 of 148 ---

Page.91
The below weekly chart of the S&P 500 showing the 0° sections at high and low points.
Often the change of trend will occur exactly at the 0° date, and sometimes can be a few
days either side of the 0° date.
 
 .
 
The below weekly chart of the Australian S&P 200 shows the 90 degree sections at
major high and low points. Most markets are affected by Seasonal Time.

--- PAGE 93 of 148 ---

Page.92
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 .
 
“SeasonalTime”isnotastandalonetimingindicator,butwhencoincidingwithother
timing techniques it adds support to the analysis.
As an example, the S&P 500 high on Friday the 21st March 2003 was at the 0° time, it
was also at 180° from the 22nd August 2002 high (to Saturday the 22nd March) and it
was also 240° from 24th July 2002 low (again to Saturday the 22nd March). When a
cycle culmination date is forecasted for a weekend or other non trading day, the market
will most often react on the Friday or the trading day before. If the reaction does not
occur on this day then the first trading day after the break needs to be monitored.
The example below, even though exhibiting some factors for a reversal, was not a signal
for a short position unless short term trading as the high was above the previous weekly
highs, indicating the trend was up. It also showed an expanding market from a range of
54.6 to 73.8, which usually means there is more to come in this direction. If a long trade
had been in progress from the outside day reversal on the 17th March, closing this trade
at 100% of the 54.6 range would have locked in profits.

--- PAGE 94 of 148 ---

Page.93
Gann stated that time and price can be treated in the same way.
Time is measured from a past reference point, and by knowing the duration of a time
cycle a future date can be calculated. The same concept can be applied to price. From a
high or low point on a chart, by knowing the cycle numbers that price moves in, the
price ranges will indicate when resistance will be met, enabling price projections to be
made. For example, if price made a range of 168 points and it was at 168 days and 630
degrees from various reference points, at a 50% price support level, you would expect a
reaction. Another example is, if a particular date has been calculated, such as 630
degrees from a past weekly turning point, and within a few days prior to this date a price
range was a little short of 630 points or cents you would watch to see if this important
number aligned in time and price on the same day. If it did, there is a high probability of
a trend change. This would mean that time and price have met a point of balance.
Variations of the above can be found when a time cycle meets a price cycle that has
originated from a different source. For example, if price had declined 168 points from a
high, and a time cycle of 1260 degrees had aligned with the 168 point decline at the
same time, then the moment this occurs you could expect a price reaction.
An example of this is in the “Time Cycles” section, where in the CAC 40 at a time
range of 345 degrees, price from a different reference point had traveled 690 points or
time and price balanced at a ratio of 2 x 1.
To be aware of these events, a good knowledge of cycles and their divisions and their
multiples is required. By noting the price ranges at each weekly range, and the other
intermediate and major ranges, you will become familiar with the numbers. You will
find they are all related to the numbers in the “Time cycles” section in some form or 
other. It is unlikely that you will be counting from 1989 to have calculated the 5,679
days as in the US dollar chart however there was present the 630° time period.
 
 .
 
17. Price Cycles

--- PAGE 95 of 148 ---

Page.94
Certain cycles, their parts and multiples appear frequently in markets. As time cycles
often repeat so do price cycles. By dividing the cycles by 1/8th and 1/3rd you will
calculate the various ways in which they can appear as a price.
Some of the more common are 42, 49, 52, 84, 88, 89, 98, 104, 122, 128, 132, 144, 147,
156, 162, 168, 171, 188, 191, 196, 224, 229, 244, 252, 264, 272, 288 & 312. By
recording the price range on the chart below each low and above each high you will
become familiar with these numbers.
 
 .
 
Following is an example from the Australian SPI at the 23rd March 2001 low. At the
time of the March equinox, at 360 degrees from the March 2000 high, when 33.3% of
the Mars cycle of 687 had completed there was a trend reversal.

--- PAGE 96 of 148 ---

Page.95
   
 
 
  
  
 
 .
 
In the below chart of the Share Price Index, the market shows how it works its way
through the different cycles and repeats past moves.
648 is 1/32nd of the square of 144 (20,736)
674 is midway between 672 (3 x 224 and 4 x 168) and 676 or 25% of the square of 52
(2,704)
630 is 25% or ¼ of 2520.
210 is 12.5% or 1/12th of 2520.
420 is 16.66% or 1/6th of 2520.
835 is 62.5% or 5/8th of 1336.
645 is 50% or ½ of 1290.
162 is 1/8th of 1290.
808 is 62.5% of 1290.
The April 2004 high was at a range of 808 points.
900 points is 25% or ¼ of 3600.
The March 2005 high is again at 808 points or 62.5% of 1290.
627 + 210 + 421 = 1258, almost 1260ortheimportant“time,timesandhalfatime”.
The market at the time of writing met resistance at 4255 on the 1262nd day and at the
808 point range. The 1576 range is 1260 plus ¼ of 1260 or 62.5% of 2520.

--- PAGE 97 of 148 ---

Page.96
 
 
The following chart of IBM has the divisions of the cycles of 1290 and 1336 shown at
the reversal alignments of time and price.
Note that 1169 days is 167 weeks or 1/8th of 1336 weeks
IBM
 
 .
 
The following chart of the DJIA shows an exact price cycle of 1290 points completing
at a time cycle date of 1262 days. Identifying these important alignments can be all that
is required to initiate a trade at these times once price reaction confirms the reversal is
underway. Short term traders would only need intraday price bars to identify a lower
swing high to initiate a “short”position.
DJIA

--- PAGE 98 of 148 ---

Page.97
S&P 500
The S&P 500 chart displayed at the Ganncycles.net website is detailed above.
By calculating the 1/8th and 1/12th divisions of the main cycles from major highs and
lows you will determine the important price support and resistance levels that a market
will encounter as it progresses up or down.
This is essentially the same concept as calculating the cycles from past highs and lows.
The difference is that time does not reverse. Calculating these price levels can be done
using a simple spreadsheet. Using the S&P 500 as an example the historical low was at
101.15. By adding the Gann percentages of 12.5% or 1/8ths and the 1/12th divisions to
the low of 101.15 you will determine these levels.
If you are familiar with Tunnel thru the Air you may recall that Gann when calculating
time periods used the method of adding cycles together. In the above S&P chart the low
of 101.15 + 1290 = 1391.15. The March 2000 high was at 1574, 182.85 points more
than 1391.5. 182.85 x 2 = 365.7 or the cycle of one year.
 
 .

--- PAGE 99 of 148 ---

Page.98
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 .
 
If a market is greater in value than one complete cycle when added to the low then
continue with the percentages as 112.5%, 125% etc. When completing a full cycle begin
the cycle again.
Decimalscanbedisregardedoraddedto“fit”themarket.Forexample101.15+1336
will result in 1437.15. A market trading at higher values such as the Dow will require
multiples or cycles that are added together.
Below in the DJIA the horizontal lines are at levels of each of the full cycles calculated
from the 7180 October 2002 low. They also can be calculated from the March 2000
high at 11840. Where there are levels that are at same value then these levels will be of
greater importance. The cycle numbers colour denotes that cycles price level.
A simple way of being aware of these levels on your computer charts is to calculate the
levels with the spreadsheet and lock the horizontal lines onto the charts as has been
done below.
DJIA

--- PAGE 100 of 148 ---

Page.99
CML –Aust.
 
 .
 
In the following chart the first cycle or range in price to the high of 484 was 37.5% or
135° of 1290.
The range down was 191 which is the number of weeks in 1336 days.
147 is 3 x 49 –Gann’sfatal number
73 is 50% of the 147 range and 168 is the hours of the week. Note that the low at this
reversal was at $8.91 or 66.6% of 1336.
Adding 484 and 191 results in 675 or 25% of the square of 52. (676)
Adding 191 and 147 results in 338 or 50% of 676.
At the 168 range from the May low, resistance at the same level of $9.88 has been
encountered on three occasions. Adding 191 and the range of 168 together results in 359.
Note the 1336 –purple, 1290 –green and the blue 1260 price levels from this markets
historical low of $1.26.

--- PAGE 101 of 148 ---

Page.100
 
 .
 
A visual representation of cycles.
Shown below are the important cycles of 360, 1260, 1290 and 1336 with the 50%
divisions in time and price.
WD Gann stated that time and price can be treated in the same way. The only difference
in calculating the two is the fact that as time moves away from a reference point a cycle
will at some time complete. It can then work in multiples of its original form also. Price
can move away from a reference point and at a later time can come back towards that
reference point. This will cause a past resistance level to then become a support level.
Only shown are two aspects of the cycles, they can also be divided by the 1/8ths and
1/12ths and also be calculated in calendar days and solar degrees.
Note the cluster of resistance levels at the 50% price levels and the two reversals at the
50% time divisions.
An important high was at the 1260° date at the top right of the diagram.

--- PAGE 102 of 148 ---

Page.101
On a chart scaled at one unit of price to one unit of time, if we were to draw a square
starting with a vertical line up from zero to a high price, then horizontally forward the
identical units of time to the high price, then vertically back down to zero, a square will
be formed. The forward vertical line will measure the first square in time of the units of
the high price.
When time and price have travelled an equal distance on the vertical axis and the
horizontal axis, regardless of the scale used, we have a square. If after 100 days in time,
price had risen 50 points then there would be a half square, or a rectangle - if this were
drawn on the chart. If you imagine a set of building blocks being stacked next to each
other, and on top of each other, than this is how a market progresses, as it moves
forward in time and in price. These blocks are at the size of the 1/8ths and 1/3rds of
certain base numbers. These numbers are detailed in the cycle’s section.
The major range in the S&P 500 up to the 24th March 2000 of 1412 points is 16 times
88. The following bear market range down to the 10th October 2002 of 807 points is
225% x 360. The next range up of 454 to the 3rd January 2005 is very close to 125% x
360 and 512.5% x 88 at 925% of 88 in days. The combined ranges of 807 and 454 equal
1261 or 3.5 times 360. The combined ranges of 1412, 807 and 454 equal 2673 or 2
times 1336.
What is happening is that price, as it progresses unfolds according to certain numbers
and cycles. This is another very important concept that can indicate that a market has
reached a price level where it will reverse. At the date of 3rd January 2005 in addition to
the 1261 and 2673 points this date was at 1262 days from the weekly high on 19th July
2001 and 1260 degrees from the weekly high on the 2nd July 2001.
Market squares become more complex to analyse when a square, or a proportion of that
square, of a particular number has unfolded in either time or price, and a square, or a
proportion of the square of another number has unfolded on the other axis of time or
price.
The time counts on the chart will tell you when the numbers that are important are
present at the horizontal axis, the price ranges from the swing chart and the bar chart
will tell you when they are present at the vertical axis.
As markets progress forward in time they conform to cycles and their divisions. As they
move up or down in price they conform to these cycles as well. When a market
progresses in time and price at certain points you will be able to calculate that there
have been a certain number of cycles along the bottom axis and a certain number of
cycles on the vertical axis. When these align at price support or resistance levels you
can expect a reversal.
 
 .
 
18. Market Squares

--- PAGE 103 of 148 ---

Page.102
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
The use of this type of analysis is limited as only the perspective of calendar days or
weeks is able to be viewed. The amount of time that alignments of these types appear is
not usually sufficient as to warrant inclusion as a primary form of analysis.
As has been seen most time and price alignments occur when originating from different
reference points. A market may have progressed 168 days in time and 168 points in
price from two entirely different past reference points so it is not particularly useful to
limit analysis to the limited perspective of using a chart overlay.
 
 .
 
The following weekly chart of the Australian SPI shows the square of 168 days x 168
points. The dotted vertical and horizontal lines divide each square by 42. The time from
the first high to the low was 84 days or 50% of 168. Note that this markets low actually
occurred on September 21st 2001 during the markets night session. The price range
down to the low shown was 631 points or 375% of 168. The time range up to the next
high on March 8 2002 was 168 days and the price range was 674 points or 400% of 168.
This example shows how clear overlays that Gann developed, of 52, 144, 168 and 360
can be used. The same result can also be achieved by knowing the important numbers,
their divisions and monitoring them on the horizontal axis with the time counts and on
the vertical axis by the price plot.
The weekly SPI chart below from 2000 to 2002 shows this market reacting in time and
price to the square of 168. From the left side high to the Sept 21 low was 84 days or
50% of 168 and 375% of 168 in price. To the 2002 high was 168 days by 400% of 168
in price.
To this high in the below chart from 11th November 1983 at the price of 1054 there was
a price range of 2448 points, this is 17 squares of 144. The various numbers detailed in
the“time cycles”sectionwillappearassquarestomonitoralso.
SPI –Aust.

--- PAGE 104 of 148 ---

Page.103
 
 
   
    
   
 
  
 
CML –Aust.
 
 .
 
In the below chart of CML, an Australian retail sector stock it can be seen from the
main high to the low that there was a price range of 108 points, this number is 75% of
144. The solar degree time taken to get to the low was 73 solar degrees or 50% of 144.
The square, or more correctly a rectangle, formed by the addition of the four sides is
362. 362 is midway between 360 and 365, two of the important numbers.
From the next high after the main high the addition of three times 89 plus 95 equalled
362. As this exact repeat of the previous square of 362 occurred on a 668 solar degree
date this market reversed. The next step in actually trading this set up would be by use
of the 1 day swing chart to show a lower top, which the market did at the fifth trading
day later.
Alternatively, a little after this market opened the day after the 668 degree high a short
position could have been taken with a stop above the previous day.
Thisparticularmarketisthesameastheoneshowninthe“markets”sectionandshows
the difference between more volatile markets and those that usually open the following
trading day close to where they closed on the previous trading day. If you find you are
having trouble with the more volatile markets there are markets such as this to be found
that offer less volatility.

--- PAGE 105 of 148 ---

Page.104
One of Gann’s methods in determining a major high or low was to calculate the time 
from a high to a low, from the high to the next high, from the low to the next high and
from the low to the next low. Markets tend to repeat minor time ranges and minor price
ranges; they also repeat major ranges in time and price.
Below is a weekly chart of the Australian Share Price Index from 8th March 2001 to 23rd
August 2002 showing this markets major reversals at times when the time periods were
balancing on the cycle of 168.
SPI –Aust.
Balancing of time is an important part of market analysis when forecasting major highs
and lows. Markets constantly seek order or balance in the midst of their seemingly
chaotic behaviour. When this balance has been achieved technically, a markets trend
will reverse, the cycles in time and price that every few days align with the support and
resistance levels will then act as obstacles in the path of the market as it works its way
towards the next major point of balance.
You will see in the following chart this same market balancing on the number 370. The
first 370 day time period down to the 13th March 2003 (lowest point) was 366 degrees
or the number related to the Earth cycle. The major high on the 21st March 2005 was at
200% of the 370 day time period.
By using the combination of time ranges and time cycles, you are able to calculate dates
that may be market reversal times. By using the methods from the swing chart, price
levels at which a market may reverse can also be calculated.
 
 .
 
19. Balancing of Time

--- PAGE 106 of 148 ---

Page.105
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
Balancing of time is essentially the same concept as that covered in the section on “time
periods”. Instead of monitoring smaller time ranges between weekly turns on the daily
chart, you will be monitoring the repeating time periods, or percentages of them, using
major highs and lows instead. These will be a recognisable number from the high to the
high and from the low to the high as in the above chart of 3 x 370 from the high to the
next high and 2 x 370 from the low to the high.
 
 .
 
By calculation of the interim time ranges, or the day counts from a past weekly turning
point applied to the chart, you will know on which dates these repeating sections will
end. On these days if there is an important time cycle, coinciding with the time ranges,
then there is a likely chance that on this date there will be a reversal.
Below is a more recent example of this market. As markets progress they encounter
points of resistance when the various cycles or their important parts align.
Understanding these cycles and having a chart correctly set out enables you to foresee
these points in time and price where reversals will occur.
515 and 229 are related to the Mars cycle number of 687.
168 and 252 are related to 168 hrs of the week and the Uranus cycle of 84.
1260issymbolically“time,timesandahalftime”fromthebible.
891 is 66.6% of 1336, also a biblical number.
360 is the ancient Hebrew year.
Not shown is that it was 739 days (2 x 370) from the main low in March 03 low to the
final high or 2 x 370.

--- PAGE 107 of 148 ---

Page.106
 
 .
 
The only way to recognise these time periods and be aware in advance that they will be
aligning, is by using charts that show the time counts and time cycles in a way that you
are aware of them in advance. Computer charts are not able to clearly present this
information visually.
The first price range out from major tops and bottoms often will indicate what cycle a
market is going to be following in the new direction. In the previous chart from the
major high in March 2002 the first price range down was 184 points, 200% of this is
368 and the actual time period was 370 days. From the 13th March 2003 low the first
weekly price range out was 341 points and 475% of this is 4299, the ultimate high was
at 4290. From this important high this markets index the S&P 200, completed a range
down of 372 points.
Below is the Nasdaq 100. Shown is a 69 day repeating time period, the 168 day period,
and 122 degrees, which is 33.3% of the 366 degree or 370 day time period. 8.35 are the
numerals of 62.5% x 1336

--- PAGE 108 of 148 ---

Page.107
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 .
 
Below is a weekly chart of the French CAC 40 stock index.
The time period from the major high on the 4th September 2000 to the low on the 12th
March 2003 was 919 days or 133.3% of 687. The price cycle was 4809 points or 7 x
687, this is the Mars cycle.
From the September 2000 high to the 8th April 2005 high was 1677 days or 240 weeks.
This number is also 1000 plus 676 which is 25% of the square of 52. The price
difference between these highs was 3053 points. This number is insignificant without
knowledgeofthenumber1336.InTunnel“ThrutheAirGann”emphasisedthenumber
7 by repeated reference to it. This was his way of showing the importance of specific
information. In this case 1336 / 7 = 190.8, and 16 x 190.8 = 3053.
From the 12th March 2003 low to the 8th April 2005 was a time range of 758 days or
450%x168and75%insolardegreesofthe1000cycle,againdetailedin“TunnelThru
theAir”.Thepricerangefromthelowtothehighwas1756.5pointsorvery close to
10.5 x 168. Often a number that is not exactly one of the important numbers will relate
to the number of solar degrees in a calendar day time period.
CAC –40 France

--- PAGE 109 of 148 ---

Page.108
By using the time ranges together with time cycles, you are able to forecast dates that
are likely to be market reversal times. By using the price forecasting methods, price
levels at which a market may reverse can be calculated.
By calculation of the interim time ranges, or the day counts from a past weekly turning
point, you will know on which dates these repeating sections will end. On these days if
there is an important cycle of 630°, 1260°, 668°, 1336°, 1290° or 631, 668, 1262, 1336,
or 1290 calendar days or (at a lesser extent) the 90° and 120° parts of the 360° cycle
coinciding with the interim time range, then there is a strong chance that this date will
be a reversal. The smaller cycles will not alone at major tops and bottoms indicate a
reversal of the trend, an important cycle will also be present if a reversal does occur.
Recurring 68 and 91 day time frames aligning with a 180° cycle is shown in the S&P
500 below. Confirmation of this trend change was on the following Monday –where, as
Gann said “the safest place to buy is after the first higher bottom”, this was at the open 
on the Monday. There was 1290° present at this low also.
S&P 500
 
 .
 
20. Forecasting

--- PAGE 110 of 148 ---

Page.109
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 .
 
The following close up section of chart is of the Australian Share Price Index (SPI)
from the section“BalancingofTime”.
The first chart shows the major time elements that were present. This date, by
knowledgeof“SeasonalTime”,“Time Cycles”,“BalancingofTime”“Percentagesof
thelow”(4293is837.5%of458).4287is840pointsfromanimportantearlierlowor
66.6% of 1260, the absolute price of 4290 is 3000 + 1290, and“TimeCounts”enableda
picture of what was likely to occur on the 21st March. A few days beforehand the micro
view showed that price on this day reached important levels before reversing and
ultimately confirmed whatwasexpected.Usingthe“Rangetocalculateahighprice”,
“Gannangles”andcumulativeprices(186+58+93=337whichis2x168and50%of
the 2001 low to the 2002 high of 674 points) enable exact calculations of what the final
price was likely to be.
There is no individual factor that determines what constitutes a forecast. The only way
to construct a forecast is by in depth analysis using the various time and price analysis
methods. This market was also in its 264th month (3 x 88) since its historical low in
March 1983. From this 4290 top followed the sharpest fall in over two years. This
market has since the March 2003 low been in a powerful bull phase. It is worth reading
whatGannhadtosayaboutmarketcorrectionsin“GeneralOutlookfor1929”in the
“Information on WD Gann”at the Gann Cycles website.

--- PAGE 111 of 148 ---

Page.110
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
SPI –SFE. Australia
 
 .
 
The following chart of the Australian SPI shows an example of how to calculate a date
in the future by using already known factors.
Watching for the important time period of 370 days from the 8th March 2002 high to the
13th March 2003 low to repeat, showed that it did from the low on the 18th November
2003 to the low on the 22nd November 2004 and again from the low on the 6th May
2005 to the high on the 12th May 2006.
By calculatingforward370daysfromthe“weekly”chartshighandlowdates, you will
determine certain dates in advance. By then calculating backwards the key cycles from
these forecasted dates you can then determine if the forecasted date will also be a date
on which one of these cycles will end.
Alsocalculatethepriceprojectionsasexplainedinthe“SwingChartsSection”.This
will enable a price and a date to be forecasted. Note in the chart below the 101% repeat
of the 645 point (50% x 1290) price cycle. By calculating percentages of the first range
out from the 13th March 2002 low and marking these levels on the chart will also add to
the forecast In this case the 12th May 2006 high occurred at exactly 8 times of the first
weekly range of 341 points from the 13th March 2003 low.

--- PAGE 112 of 148 ---

Page.111
Using Gann analysis for intraday trading is done by using hourly time cycles, time
ranges, support and resistance levels, price ranges and Gann angles to determine price
levels where a reversal may occur. If you are an aggressive trader you can initiate a
trade very close to these levels with a stop a little beyond the point of the reversal. You
need some confirmation before entering the trade, but of course the more confirmation
you obtain the more you will be giving up of the anticipated move.
It is important to know that such minor cycles are only to be used as a method of
entering a trade close to a calculated turning point on a one day chart, such as at the 630,
631, 668, 1262, 1336 or 1260 day or degree dates, or to exit a position by the same
technique.
Counting time, using one hour bars can indicate the approximate time of a reversal
within the day, using fifteen minute or five minute bars can get you within minutes of
the reversal, although a little longer may be needed for the price action to confirm the
reaction. With experience, using intraday data on cycle dates, you will get to “know” a 
reversal as it happens. Markets exhibit similar behaviour at these points of reversal.
Time counts work as well in the smaller time frames as well as in the larger time frames.
By using intraday time counts at the same parts of the division of 360 and its percentage
increases ie; 30, 45, 60, 90 etc. hours on a 90, 120, 180, 240, 270, 360, 630, 1260 etc.
degree date, very close entries can made at the reversal times. 56 days is 1336 hours is
55.6 days, 1290 hours is 53.75 days and 1260 hours is 52.5 days. These time periods
when aligning with the larger cycle dates will indicate a date of greater importance.
There are the other numbers from the “Time Cycle” section which are important to 
watch. Where there are a group or cluster of these numbers at the price levels detailed in
the swing chart section then that is likely to be a turning point. You will see these
numbers in the following 1 hour charts.
The concept is that when large cycles align with smaller cycles it is a more important
time for a change or a new beginning. For example in the 90th week, the 90th day or
degrees, at the 90th hour and the 90th minute, or any other combination of the important
numbers you will have the wheel within the wheel effect.
Daily counts are made from past important highs and lows, hourly counts can be made
from significant turning points on a one day chart.
If you were trading the following chart you would only trade in the direction of the
trend which means only long positions up to the highs and only short positions from the
highest point. You would do this by drawing a swing chart on a sheet of graph paper or
connect the high and low points on an intraday live chart. This swing system is detailed
in earlier sections.
 
 .
 
21. Intraday Trading

--- PAGE 113 of 148 ---

Page.112
     
   
 
 .
 
Gann angles are used on intraday charts as you would in any other time frame, but by
using trading hours. As an example, from a low point 100 hours ago, the angle would
intersect at 100 points above the originating low point.
As with using the weekly swing chart or 2 day swing chart to clearly define the daily
trend, use the 1 day swing chart or 1 hour swing chart to monitor the main trend when
intraday trading. Trades in harmony with the main trends are safer and stronger.
When using price support and resistance levels between a high and low point regardless
of the time frame, calculate between the most recent high and low first, then the next
high and low that occurred before that. When there is a cluster of price support or
resistance levels in the one area it will be a more important level.
In the following 1 hour chart of the Australian S&P 200, you will see the time count
startingat“0”atthelowonthe9th December 2004. 42 hours is ¼ of 168 (hours in a
week), 52, (weeks in a year), 56 (1/4 of the Venus cycle), 72 (½ of 144), 30 (1/12th of
360) 84 (1/2 of 168), 42 (1/4 of 168), 90 (1/4 of 360), 48 (2 x 24hrs) 54 (related to
square of 144), 72 (1/2 of 144), 84 (1/2 of 168), 120 (1/3 of 360) 126 (3/4 of 168) 132
(1/2 of 264), 90 (1/4 of 360) 149 (100 + 49), 108 (3/4 of 144).
Note the time ranges of 42 hours repeating from 0 to 42 to 84 to 126. Also from 0 to 56
to 112.
These numbers have psychological effects that when combined with price levels will
often indicate trend changes.

--- PAGE 114 of 148 ---

If using intraday analysis to make trade entries it is important to be aware of the fact
thatmarketsoftenmakea“lastlungeforthetop”.Thismeansthatonareversaldateif
a market has appeared to commence a reversal it can, usually towards the end of the day,
suddenly turn and make a new high a little beyond what appeared to be the reversal high
point. Your analysis may have been correct for the day to be a reversal but if you are
stopped out you can still lose. Using larger time frame intraday bars will delay your
entry but will also provide greater certainty. The reason for this behaviour is that the gap
between the apparent high and the completion of a price cycle will act as a vacuum.
Markets can often close on their high at these times and then reverse from the following
day. Entries can then be made on the day following as the market move away from the
previous days high.
 .
Page.113
 
The next chart is a continuation of the previous chart and shows reactions at the 12th
hour (1/2 of a 1 day) the next is the 15th hour (1/24th of 360) the next is 21 hours (1/8 of
168) then the 30th hour or 1/12th of 360, 36 hours or ¼ of 144 and 1.5 days, 39 hours or
1/10th of 390, 45 hours or 1/8th of 360, 48 hours or 2 days and 60 hours or ¼ of 360
hours.
If you continue the counts from 149 in the previous chart you will come to 162, 168,
193, 149, 171, 179 (1 short of 180 at the session close) and 216 (150% x 144). Note that
at the 216th hour in the following chart (from the 149th hour in the first chart) at 4140 it
was a signal bar, which indicated that the main trend was resuming. Entry would have
been made on this day by watching for the market to trade above this hours open price,
or by using 2 to 5 minute charts to confirm higher highs and higher lows as described in
the swing trading section.
If you continue the counts from 108 in the previous chart you will come to 120, 126,
135, 144, and 162. The 120th hour was followed by the 121st hour bar having a high
close and indicating the main trend resumption after the first higher low was confirmed.

--- PAGE 115 of 148 ---

Page.114
The following chart of the Australian SPI 200 shows the reaction at 4178 on 6th April
2005. This date was a cycle date; 90, 120, 270, 360, 420, 810, 900 degrees as well as
645, 687, 1290, 1262, and 1336 days.
The 7 points x 1 day Gann angle intersected at 4178, the 50% level of the range leading
up to the main high was at 4179.
50% of the 96 point range (not shown) at the 4169 high (sect. 2 @ 52pts) was at 4179.
72p + 52p + 47p = 171 or 25% of 687 (Mars)
 
 .
 
In the following DJIA chart you will see the 15th hour (1/2 x 30), 12 (1/2 of 24) 24, 30,
12, 39 (1/10th of 390) 44 (1/2 of 88) 60 and 42 hours. The 10380 to 10560 range was
repeated from 10540 to 10720. Also note the 12 hour time ranges repeating.

--- PAGE 116 of 148 ---

Page.115
This section details the factors that were analysed leading into and out of the following
reversal dates including a major high.
This analysis was applied to the Australian Share Price Index futures market from the
9th March 2005, prior to the major high on the 21st March 05, and following this high to
the first lower swing high on the 8th April 05.
The 1 day bar chart, 1 day and 2 day swing charts of this period are shown below. The
50% levels are marked on the swing charts.
The first calculation is made by use of the time count lines to locate the cycle dates. At
the March 9th high, the 1262 day cycle from the 24th September 2001, was present. This
was the major low after 11th September 2001. The half cycle of 631 days from the 17th
June 2003 was also present. When there has already been a reaction to a particular cycle,
as with the 631 day reaction from 24th September 2001 on the 17th June 2003, it
increases the chance that the next parts of that cycle will be effective, in this case the
1262nd day. On this day there were also present a number of minor cycles. All of these
numbers were calculated by the time counts from past weekly turns.
 
 .
 
22. Reversal date analysis

--- PAGE 117 of 148 ---

Page.116
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 .
 
It often does not matter if a past reference point that a time count is commenced from is
not major. All turns occur because an already existing cycle was present. The only way
to keep track of the cycles is by time count lines from each weekly turn. If reactions are
insignificant at the 1260 series, it may mean that the cycle being monitored will prove to
be effective on the 1336 series.
For example, if a time count is commenced from a minor weekly turn when setting up a
chart, you may be picking up a cycle that has its origins much further back. At some
stage in the future an important part of this cycle will reappear at a major reversal date.
Usingthe“BalancingofTime”technique,fromthe2002majorhigh there had elapsed
1097 days and from the 2003 major low there had elapsed 727 days. 1097 days is 3 x
366 and 727 is a little less than 66.6% of 1097, it is also related to 224 and 168. The
time factors were indicative of a possible reversal, however the price range up to this
date of 1576 points did not indicate that price had completed an important cycle.
On the weekend of 11th to 13th March, there were present 1336 degrees and a number of
smaller cycles. Monday the 14th was a larger than average range up day with higher
volume, this indicated that the preceding two down days were a retracement and that the
main trend was still intact.
Monday the 21st March was the equinox at 0 degrees. This market, as do many others,
often turns around this date. It was a date that the secondary cycle of 1260 degrees from
September 24th 2001 was calculated from. There were also present numerous minor
cycles in degrees and days. The price cycle from 13th March 2003 of 1611 points was
analysed using the description Gann gavein“TunnelThrutheAir”ofaddingcyclesto
obtain a result that aligned with the other information. 1611 is 1260 plus 351. 352 is 4 x
88, the first major range out of this market from March 1983 to January 1984 was 351
points.
The numbers present at the various time counts from the past weekly turns are related to
thenumbersdetailedinthe“Time Cycles”section.Theyareallrelatedtocycle
numbers from biblical symbolism and the solar system.
March 9th 2005: 668 / 24hrs = 28 days, 168 x 37.5% = 63, 360 / 4 = 90,
93 appeared at three of the dates and was the final one day chart price range, it had been
observed prior to this time period and is a consequence of the habit forming behaviour
of the market. 147 is 3 x 49; 168; 240 is 360 x 66.6%; 1047 biblically is symbolic of
147 or 3 x 49; 327 was an important price range from Nov 18th 03 to April 6th 04; 504 is
3 x 168; 631; 666 is the biblical number of the beast; 670 is midpoint between the
important numbers of 668 and 672; 1262; 1080 degrees (purple) is 3 x 360; 727 is
almost 2 x 360 and 325% x 224 and 433.3% x 168.

--- PAGE 118 of 148 ---

Page.117
   
 
 
 
April 8th: Friday, first lower high; 93; 120; 193 is 50% of the Dow 1929 high of 386;
270; 256 is related to the 224 Venus and 366 Earth cycles; 1176 was particularly
important as it is 168 weeks; 732 is 2 x 366; and 911 is symbolic of 191 or 1336 in
weeks.
The final and failed attempt at a move higher was on April 13th: The numbers are; 90;
1260; 98 is 2 x 49; 128 is 50% x 256; 170 is 25% of 687; 512 is 2 x 256 and 666.
666 and 888 are also symbolic biblical numbers. On occasions these numbers will be
present at reversal dates.
 
 .
 
March 11-14th: There were 64-66 days, this had been a repeating time period in recent
months;49isGann’sfatalnumber;93, 171 is 25% of the Mars cycle; 264 is 3 x 88, the
Mercury cycle; 229 is 33.3% of the Mars cycle; 2004 is 3 x 668; 382 is 2 x 191 or the
number of weeks in 1336 days; 540 is 150% x 360; 480 is 133.3% of 360; 668; 672 is 3
x 224 the Venus cycle and 4 x 168; 720 degrees is 2 x 360 degrees.
March 21st: 120 is 33.3% x 360; 270 is 75% x 360; 229 –Mars; 515 is 75% of Mars
cycle; 252 is 150% x 168; 1344 is 6 x 224 and 8 x 168; 104 is 2 x 52; 891 is 66.6% of
1336; 864 represents the days for 144 squared in hours; 676 is 25% of 52 squared and
1260.
March 30th: 84 is 50% of 168 and the Uranus cycle; 132 is 50% of 264; 168; 343
degrees is 50% of 687; 1336 degrees; 229; 687; 980 is 2 x 490 and finally the important
630 degree time.

--- PAGE 119 of 148 ---

The Final Top
The first point to consider in taking a position against the main trend is to be aware of
the fundamentals prevailing at the time. As it is common for markets to overshoot on
the upside and on the downside, it is at these times you will find some dissenters. This
serves as a warning of what is on the minds of most, but who are still following the
crowd. The faster and further a market runs then the greater its chances of it becoming
out of balance.Gann’sarticleattheGann Cycles website,“TheGeneralOutlookfor
1929”paragraph 2 is relevant here.
It is the balance of a market that is most important in determining major trend reversals,
the most importantfactortolookatisthe“Balancing of Time”ormonitoringthetime
periods between past major highs and lows.
This isdoneaccordingtotheexplanationinthe“TimeCounts”sectionbymeasuring
time between highs and lows. It is when these time periods work out evenly from major
past reversals that these major tops and bottoms occur. Price cycles, the absolute price
value and percentages of past price ranges also need to be considered.
As with time needing to balance, price does also. The most important price to be
considered in the following chart of the SPI was the exact repeating of the price range
from the 11th November 1987 crash low, up to the 8th March 2002 high which was 2448
points. The 2002 high down to the 2003 low was 837 points, and the 2003 low up to the
March 2005 high was 1611 points, when you add the 837 and 1611 ranges they equal
2448 points.
 .
Page.118

--- PAGE 120 of 148 ---

Page.119
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
            
The low following the main high occurred at 4078 on July 16th at the 2 points x 1 day
angle from the March 2002 high and was 1336 degrees from a high in July 2001. This
chart is on the following page. From this low the market advanced and was to form the
first lower high. It is important to note that this advance was against the new trend
which was now down. It is now a time to watch for lower highs to form.
 
 .
 
The final high pricereachedonMarch21,2005was4290.UsingGann’smethodof
calculating time periods in his forecasting of events in US historyashedidin“Tunnel
thrutheAir”youwouldcalculatethat4290was3x1000plus1290,whichisoneofthe
important numbers to monitor.
The Gann angle from the September 2001 low was at 8 points per week or 8 x 1, and
intersected at 4301 on March 21, 2005. At major highs and lows it is useful to also note
the forward contract price levels. The price reached on the forward contract was 4297.
Another aspect to this reversal date was that it occurred on the March equinox. This has
beendetailedinthe“SeasonalTime”section.Thismarkethashadimportantreversalsat
Equinox and Solstice 0 degree dates on many occasions and is always a useful time to
analyse when calculating time periods back to previous major highs and lows.
The next factor to consider is price relative to its previous range. As can be seen in the
following SPI chart on the 21st March 2005 the 4290 high was at exactly 50% of the
previous range in the same direction.Thisisdetailedinthe“Usingarange to calculate a
highprice”Thecumulativerangesof186+58+93=337or2x168.

--- PAGE 121 of 148 ---

Page.120
The next stage of this analysis is determining where the first lower top will form after
this major high was confirmed. The first step is calculating the resistance levels of the
price range down from the high. These are the Gann percentages of 1/8ths and 1/3rds.
Generally this market reaches 1/2 to 2/3rds of the previous range when in a bear market
phase, which knowledge of enabled avoiding the false signals given at the first and fifth
trading days out after the low. Gann’s rule of three showed that there were three 
successive highs before finally falling away from April 8th after reaching a price level of
4185 at 50% of the 4290 to 4078 range.
The next chart shows first lower top formation at 4185. The market was unable to close
above the 50% level on a 1336 degree date and shows the strategic value in placing a
stop above the important 50% level.
 
 .

--- PAGE 122 of 148 ---

Page.121
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 .
 
From this 4185 high as the market declined it would be expected to conform to the
Gann percentages as detailed in “Usingarangetocalculatealowprice”.The4078to
4185 range was 107 points or 75% of 144. The price retracement ranges of 106 to 111
were frequent in this market leading up to the high. For this range now to occur as an
upward retracement is further evidence of a new main trend.
It is important to know that a cycle that has been calculated from a past reference point
is initially a method of knowing in advance a date that requires further analysis before it
is traded from. The cycles that are of practical use to a trader, or those that are of a
magnitude to be effective and still retain their accuracy, will indicate in advance a
possible reversal date, however to calculate a major high or low, the “balancingoftime”
and other factors need to be taken into account. At times of regular market activity these
cycles in conjunction with minor time periods enable trading opportunities. It is the
markets balance that ultimately determines a major reversal.
The major cycles that Gann detailed in his courses such as the 60, 49, 20, and 10 year
cycles are useful to be aware of, however it is unlikely that a trader would take a
positionbasedonaoneortwoweek“window ofopportunity”without using more
accurate smaller cycles such as those of the 1 year cycle and the 1260, 1290 and 1336
series to initiate a trade.
The times when the larger cycles affect markets is when global markets of similar
categories such as a stock index make high or low at the same time. The most recent
was in March 2003 when global stock indexes made major lows. These dates can be
traced back using historical events. An example of this was on the 19th November 1860,
whentheWallStJournalstatedtherewas“agloomy day on Wall St, paper was not
negotiable”thiswasthedaywhenwarwiththesouthernUSstatesappearedtobe
inevitable. From this date 3600 weeks or 69 years forward gives late 1929. War dates
were of particular importance to Gann. From the 1929 crash low in 1932 plus 69 years
gives 2001, again a year of importance.
The examples used in the above charts of the Australian SPI are no different in concept
toanalysinganyothermarket.TheseareGann’smethodsofanalysis,heappliedthese
methods to marketsmanyyearsagoandtheycanenableananalystoftoday’smarkets
to do the same.
Unless charts are kept that are able to detail the required information needed to
determine when these market reversals will occur then it is best that the important
cyclesdetailedinthecycle’ssectionbeusedincombinationwiththeswingchartsto
trade the swings as they present themselves.

--- PAGE 123 of 148 ---

Page.122
The FTSE 100 when it reacted at the 66.6% price resistance level at a cycle of 1262
days was an excellent set up for a short term trader.
A position trader would have gone long the day after the 630 degree date as a swing
chart turned up. Note the 4928 high at 66.6% formed the top of the first new range out
by being higher than the last lower tops before the final bottom.
 
 .

--- PAGE 124 of 148 ---

Page.123
The S&P presented an excellent short term trade at the 668 degree date at the 50%
resistance level.
 
 .

--- PAGE 125 of 148 ---

Page.124
The techniques described in this manual are those that Gann used. There are other
techniques described that without doubt he would have been aware of. These techniques
are meant to be used in conjunction with each other. I have seen important time cycles
not effect a market because the price levels were not met. Many traders depend on price
support levels to reverse the market they are trading and often they do not, because the
time cycles were not present. The time periods or time ranges are equally important. A
time and price squaring from an important high or low serves as a confirmation when
there is the balancing of time with price. A strong cycle needs to be present as does the
market position need to be considered, the price projection or retracement, from
the previous range needs to be completed at the Gann percentages. In addition to these
factors the markets pattern, sections or wave structure needs to be complete before
there is a major trend change. Volume will assist with the analysis of a nearing trend
change.
This is fulfilling Gann’s statement of “when you use time and price together you
know how to trade”.
In summary, a market, on a time pressure date, if the current range has completed a
percentage of its last range, and at a price support or resistance level, and time and
price have balanced, will encounter strong resistance. These factors will then be
followed by a main trend reversal, if the market has completed its sections or wave
counts. If these sections have not completed, then the reversal may only be temporary
as in a retracement. This is why Gann said “the safest place to buyis at the first higher
bottom” and “the safest place to sell is at the first lower top”. This concept confirms that 
a new trend has commenced. Swing charts show this clearly.
Application of these techniques will enable calculations to be made in advance of when
a market changes trend. Coordinating the swing chart with the bar chart tells you when
the price and time factors have aligned.
The safest way to trade is with the trend. Successive higher highs with successive higher
lows indicate an uptrend, lower highs and lower lows is a down trend. When a top or
bottom does occur it will have present the combination of time and price factors, the
trend needs to have completed before this will happen. By applying the information in
this system to these higher bottoms and lower tops you are sure to profit.
Every market turn can be calculated using these methods. There are some that say
Gann’s methods don’t work, what they should be saying is that they can’t get them to 
work. The trade failure rate using these techniques should not be more than 25/30%.
When these failures occur it is because the market was not ready, or had not completed
what it needed to do. This means incorrect interpretation was responsible. Always use
stops. If the markets intentions are unclear, wait for the next set up, you won’t lose by 
not trading.
 
 .
 
23. Trade Management

--- PAGE 126 of 148 ---

Page.125
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 .
 
Reversal Dates
Before a reversal date is traded the following factors must be considered Time, Price
and Pattern. When these three come together, this is when opportunity to profit exists.
The cycle date will identify when the market should react. The price levels calculated at
the Gann percentages of cycles and retracement and support levels on the swing chart
will determine the price levels the reaction will occur at, and the wave section or pattern
will indicate whether the market is at a trend reversal point or only retracing temporarily
before resuming the main trend. The first thing to do is, identify Time.
Time
The time of an expected reversal is identified by the projected cycle and time periods
from a past weekly turning point. A common mistake is the idea that the market must
reverse on every signal date. Often, the market will reverse on the calculated date.
Sometimes the market will encounter resistance before resuming the prevailing trend.
At other times a small correction may result before resumption of the main trend.
This is why pattern –the swing chart, and price –piece cycles, percentage levels of the
last range and relative to the previous range in the same direction must be coordinated
with cycle dates to ensure only trades with the trend are taken.
Pattern
After identifying a reversal date you then need to form a picture of the market. This is
best done with the swing chart. If the one day chart is unclear then expand the time
framebyusingatwodayswingchart.Gann’sruleofthree,andexpandingor
decreasing time and price ranges are important to monitor. When determining main tops
and bottoms the balancing of time periods, time cycles, price cycles and pattern are
critical. It is very easy to identify a cycle culmination date and conclude that this is
wherethemarket“will”reverse.Itmay,butwhatismoreimportantisthatyouletthe
market show its hand and act only when all the required pieces fall into place. It is not
as important that you are right about what the market will do before the day of a trade
entry, but that you are right on the day.
Price
When a reversal date has been identified, and the market is forming lower tops, higher
bottoms or a main trend reversal, then the price level needs to be calculated that the
market is likely to stop and reverse at. Price cycle levels and the Gann percentages of
the previous range in the same direction, and these percentages applied to the range that
the market is currently trading within, relative to previous highs and lows, in addition to
the other price levels determined by percentages of the lows and highs will enable you
to identify where clusters of price levels are. Gann angles that intersect at these price
levels will add to the analysis of where support and resistance levels are.

--- PAGE 127 of 148 ---

Page.126
 
 .
 
Trade Entries and Exits
On the pressure dates that this system relies upon to make trade entries, intraday price
action can get you in very close to the actual top or bottom.
The first method of entering a trade from a pressure date is by using small time frame
bars such as 2 or more minutes. 4 minutes is 1 degree of 1 day. For short position trades,
when the intraday chart pattern forms a lower top, that is, has failed in an attempt to
take out the high and starts to decline, an entry can be made and a stop placed a little
above this failed high. Alternatively, using a O/H/L/C or candlestick bar, by watching
the market after it opens, if it trades up then starts to decline and pulls back below the
open, the trade can be entered with a stop placed above the high. This is usually best left
for about ¼ to ½ hour after a markets open. This is shown in the following chart, these
are the red bars.
With a long position, wait for the market to trade above its open or has made a higher
bottom on an intraday chart. Markets can move quickly on occasions, so an intraday
swing chart may not present an opportunity to enter a trade so be prepared to use both
methods.
In the following chart of the S&P 500, the arrows indicate where to enter a trade once
analysis has indicated a reversal date. The long trades are entered a little after the
market traded back above the open. The short entries are made when the market trades
below the days open. Intraday entries can be used if the intraday patterns allow for this.
In this chart at each of the turns there are time cycles present. Often on the day of the
reversal a clear entry signal is not given. By leaving the entry to the following day and
entering as the market traded above or below the open price on the day means that the
negative bias to the anticipated reversal has dissipated. In fast moving markets you will
need to act promptly to avoid missing the trade entirely. When a market trades above or
below its open price and also the open and close of the previous day it is a stronger
entry signal.

--- PAGE 128 of 148 ---

Page.127
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The range up from the 4/5/00 ended a little short of 75% of the immediate prior range,
and a little over 50% of the range coming off the main low.
What is present is what Gann emphasised. The aligning of time on the vertical axis,
price on the horizontal axis and the balancing of time and price at the diagonal.
The following chart is of the Australian SPI. It shows the lower high made on the
16/7/04. This date was at 84 and 168 calendar days, and at 30 and 120 solar degrees.
Importantly, it had failed to reach the 50% level of the previous range. The first daily
low from the high was also below the last low leading up to the high.
The following Monday signalled a short entry when the market traded below the open
and below the 3 points per day, or 3 x 1 Gann angle, from the 12/5/04. This is shown by
the arrow.
The position was closed on the day of the next low, the 26/7/04 at just a few points from
the low of 3469. This day was at 120 and 240 degrees from previous weekly turning
points. It was also at a 35 days repeating time period (this chart is on page 2 of the “time 
counts” section) The 33 point range is 3/8th or 37.5% of 88.
 
 .
 
The following daily chart of CBA, an Australian bank shows the low on the 4th May
2000. This date was at 90 degrees from the 3rd February 2000. You would have had this
date marked as 90 degrees on the chart beforehand. The low on the 4th May 2000 was at
a range down of 143 points from the high on 26th April 2000. 144 is an important
numbermentionedin“PriceCycles”.Thepricesupportlevel was at 33.3% of the main
range, and time and price squared out at 7 points per day or at a 7 x 1 angle. The actual
low at $25.20 is 4 times 630, or 7 times 360. The chart had shown it was in an uptrend
by the successive higher lows and higher highs. A trade entry could have been made
near the close of the day.

--- PAGE 129 of 148 ---

Page.128
In the following chart of the Australian SPI; A, B and D show SHORT trades. They are
in the direction of the trend and each of these reversal days would have been calculated
by using timing methods. Entries are made as the market trades below the open, on the
day or the following day in A. C could have been a short trade, however three waves or
sections had completed, so caution would have been in order.
1 to 7 show LONG trades. They are in the direction of the trend, entries are made as the
market trades above the open on the day or the following day. The first four ranges up
were very close to the previous ranges. Trade 4 did not continue the previous pattern
and a small loss would have resulted. Trade 6 would have locked in profits by use of a
trailing STOP. Trade 7 did not follow thru and small loss would have resulted. Below is
the swing chart of the previous chart. A weekly swing chart used in conjunction with the
1 day swing chart showed that main trend was up. At “1” the weekly trend continuation 
had been confirmed.
 
 .

--- PAGE 130 of 148 ---

The main or weekly high and low points can be determined by the important cycle
numbers, 631, 668, 840, 1262, 1290, 1336 days and 630, 668, 840, 1260, 1290 and 1336
degrees. These are marked on each time count line if using a hand drawn chart. They
can also be calculated once a weekly high or low has occurred by setting up a
spreadsheet table with the reference date and the forecasted dates calculated.
Money Management
Moneymanagementrulesarecriticaltoprotectyourtradingcapital.Gann’smethod
was to never outlay or have at risk more than 10% of his total trading account. This way,
he said, he would have had to have 10 losing trades before he lost all his capital.
The Trading Plan
You need to set up a system to document your analysis. You can do this by listing the
cycles present on the day of the reversal, the support or resistance level at the turning
point with the Gann angles and the price retracements or projection percentages.
Always keep records of trading information such as the date, time, price, and quantity
and market position of your order.
Handy Hints
Be cautious with other peoples advice. Be responsible for your trading decisions. The
swingcharttellsyouthemarketstrend,itdoesn’tlie.Ifunsurethendon’ttakethetrade.
The first step to winning is not losing. When in a trade often ask yourself would you
take the position now that you are in.
Nevertradeonahunchorbecauseyoufeelyouneedto.Don’tletemotionsinterfere
with your decisions.
Always trade with the trend unless you have clear indication, using time and price set
upsthatacountertrendmoveisstarting.AnoldWallStreetsayingis,“topandbottom
pickersgobroke”.
Entries “atmarket”maybethebestwaytoenteratradingposition.It’scertainlythe
easiest way to enter and by trying to save a point or two you can miss a trade entirely.
Setprofittargets,don’tbegreedywheninasuccessfultrade,ifyoudon’twanttoclose
a trade use a trailing stop placed behind the day before, or the other side of support or
resistance levels.
Alwaysuseastoplossorderanddon’ttradeifyoucan’tplaceitwithina percentage of
your trading capital. Gann used 10%. Don’tletsmalllossesbecomelargelosses.
Don’tfightthemarket.Gowithwhicheverdirectionitisgoing,notthedirection you
think it should be going. The 1 and 2 day swing charts clearly indicate this.
Get to know your market, they can have their own unique characteristics. Hindsight will
then become foresight.
Watch volume levels, increasing volume in the direction of the trend indicates strength,
declining volume indicates less activity in that direction.
Keep your charts up to date, on the dates that are calculated as possible reversal times
you will be ready to act and profit.
.
Page.129

--- PAGE 131 of 148 ---

Page.130
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 .
 
The simplest way to trade is to calculate the possible reversal dates and price levels by
using the key cycle numbers and coordinating them with the swing chart. Always
considering the main trend with the swing charts, at Time and Price alignments, when
you have a higher swing bottom, then BUY. When you have a lower swing top, then
SELL.Thepricelevelstodothisatonthesedaysaredetailedinthe“Supportand
Resistancelevels”section.
Below is the type of market setups to watch for. On a TIME cycle date, if PRICE has
reached an important support or resistance level, and intraday, the market is reacting
back in the direction of the main trend, then a trade can be entered.
Deciding to take profits intraday or holding the trade for longer can be decided on the
day based on factors prevailing at the time. One strategy is to close half the position and
place a stop near entry.
Using the earlier sections to calculate precise time and price levels can be done,
however by combining the two most important factors as in the below chart and letting
the market tell you what it is doing, much less analysis is required.
My approach to trading is to select a group of markets that meet my criteria as detailed
inthe“markets”section.Imonitor these markets regularly to find a market that is
exhibiting the patterns I prefer. Once I have found a market that appears to be ready for
a move I then check for the Time and Price cycle alignments. The next step is to
monitor the markets live price action and enter the trade according to the signal
generated at the time.

--- PAGE 132 of 148 ---

Page.131
Below is the same scenario for a short position. 3 is below 1, 4 is below 2, the day
closed below its open price, or the 2nd day from 4 caused the swing chart to turn down.
Stops are placed above 4.
 
 .
 
The following chart shows what can be one of the most reliable types of trades. It
includes trend, price and time. Selecting these types of setups and using sensible money
management rules will ensure safe and profitable trading. The basic rules are; trend
direction confirmed by 3 being above 1. 4 being a cycle date and retracing 50% or less
of 2 to 3 and the following day trading comfortably above its open price with good
volume. Stops are placed below 4.

--- PAGE 133 of 148 ---

Page.132
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 .
 
W.D.GANN’STWENTY-FOUR NEVER-FAILING RULES
1. Amount of capital to use: Divide your capital into 10 equal parts and never risk more than one-tenth of
your capital in any one trade.
2.U se stop loss orders. Always protect a trade when you make it with a stop loss order 3 to 5 points away.
3.N ever overtrade. This would be violating your capital rule.
4.N ever let a profit run into a loss. After you have made a profit or 3 points or more, raise your stop loss
order so that you will have no loss of capital.
5.D o not buck the trend. Never buy or sell if you are not sure of the trend according to your charts.
6.Whenindoubt,getout,anddon’tgetinwhenindoubt.
7.T rade only in active stocks. Keep out of slow, dead ones.
8. Equal distribution of risk. Trade in 4 or 5 stocks, if possible. Avoid tying up all your capital in any one
stock.
9.N ever limit your orders or fix a buying or selling price. Trade at the market.
10.Don’tcloseyourtradeswithoutgoodreason.Followupwithastoplossordertoprotectyourprofits.
11. Accumulate a surplus. After your have made a series of successful trades, put some money into
surplus account to be used only in emergency or times of panic.
12.Ne ver buy just to get a dividend.
13.Ne ver average a loss. This is one of the worst decisions a trader can make.
14. Never get out of the market just because you have lost patience or get into the market just because you
are anxious from waiting.
15.Av oid taking small profits and big losses.
16.Ne ver cancel a stop loss order after you have placed it at the time you make a trade.
17.Av oid getting in and out of the market too often.
18. Be just as willing to sell short as you are to buy. Let your object be to keep with the trend and make
money.
19.Ne ver buy just because the price of a stock is low or sell short just because the price is high.
20. Be careful about pyramiding at the wrong time. Wait until the stock is very active and has crossed
resistance levels before buying more.
21. Select the stocks with small volume of shares outstanding to pyramid on the buying side and the ones
with the largest volume of stock outstanding to sell short.
22. Never hedge. If you are long one stock and it starts to go down, do not sell another stock short to
hedge it. Get out at the market; take your loss and wait for another opportunity.
23.Ne ver change your position in the market without good reason. When you make a trade, let it be for
some good reason or according to some definite plan; then do not get out without a definite indication of a
change in trend.
24.Av oid increasing your trading after a long period of success or a period of profitable trades.

--- PAGE 134 of 148 ---

Page.133
“Charts are records of past market movements. The future is but a 
repetition of the past. There is nothing new. As the bible says, “The thing 
that hath been, it is that which shall be”. History repeats and with charts 
and rules, we determine when and how it is going to repeat. Therefore, the
first and most important point to learn is how to make charts correctly
because, if you make an error in the chart, you will make an error in
applying the rules to your trading”.WD Gann.
On a chart set out in calendar day format, that is, leaving gaps for each non trading day
of the year and at each significant turning point –a weekly chart will be a guide as to
these points. Mark on these dates on the chart, or below the date axis on the bottom of
the chart, the date and solar degree of the month. By counting forward from these dates
the important numbers of 1262, 1290 and 1336 days and 1260, 1290 and 1336 degrees
and their 1/8th divisions you will know what dates in the future are to be further
analysed using time periods and price cycle levels, to determine if a reversal is likely.
When a previously recognisable time period is occurring on one of these time cycle
dates then that date is a more likely date on which a reversal will occur. Some of these
time periods that often occur in all markets are 49, 52, 144, 168, 191, 224, 372, 666, 888,
days and multiples and 1/8th divisions of these numbers.
When writing in time counts use a fine point pen or pencil for clarity and for solar
degrees use a different colour so these numbers can be easily seen. Start the time counts
from each new weekly turn. Placing a coloured sticker above or below the reference
point will easily identify reference points when a chart becomes large. Continue time
counts for 1336 degrees into the future. Underline the numbers that are at each new
significant high or low point. Keep these time counts continued in advance so that as the
market trades into these numbers already on the chart you will be aware of the cycles
and time periods beforehand. Then on the date or a day or two beforehand refer to the
swing chart for market pattern and the price support and resistance levels.
When calculating the horizontal support and resistance levels of the key cycles initially
apply the 50% level then the others as required as the market trades into the area. Price
cycles when intersecting with a time cycle date and a time period date are where and
when reversals are more likely to occur. Where a price cycle level is close to a division
of a range using Gann percentages or Fibbonacci levels then it is more important. Also
apply the range percentages using the swing chart which can be drawn at the far right of
the chart at the same scale to the bar chart.
 
 .
 
24. Charts

--- PAGE 135 of 148 ---

When applying Gann angles calculate at least three points before drawing in any line.
As an example, after 30 days out from a high or low, mark where the line will intersect
30 points below or above the starting point, then 60 days out, mark on the chart where
the line will intersect 60 points above or below the starting point, and then 90 days out,
mark where 90 points up or down is, then draw the line connecting the three points. It
should, from the original point intersect the three points exactly. Do this in pencil at first
for most lines, so they can be erased and so as to not excessively clutter the chart.
When an important high or low point occurs, initially draw the angle that best fits with
the markets current position. This may be a 4 points per 1 day angle or more if the
market is moving away sharply. Adding angles in 1 point increments can be useful, such
as 1 x 1, 2 x 1, 3 x 1, 4 x 1, 5 x 1, 6 x 1, 7 x 1, 8 x1, 9 x 1, etc.
Write in the weekly price ranges above and below the weekly turning points on the bar
chart and the swing chart, in red for down ranges and blue/black for up ranges. Price
ranges have a tendency to repeat. They will be related to the numbers related to the
cycles and percentages of these cycles and to the previous ranges in the same direction.
By adding them together they will also relate to cycle numbers. When straight line
ranges and previous ranges in either direction are added together they will also relate to
the cycle numbers. These are cumulative ranges. A good example of this is the S&P 500
where the 1984 to 2000 range was 1412, the next range down to 2002 was 807, and the
range up to 3rd January 2005 was 454, 1412 + 807 + 454 = 2673 or 2 x 1336. On this
day at 1221, 807 + 454 = 1261. Additionally it was at a 1262 day, 1260 and 630 degree
date. Having these important cycles present in time and price was a very powerful
indication of this reversal. This concept can be used in any time or price frame.
Swing charts or the trend indicator can be constructed in different ways. The bar chart
with an accompanying box style swing chart in the same scale is best. The days taken
for each range, the price ranges and the support and resistance levels can be marked on
this chart as well. A swing overlay can be applied to the bar chart, it will serve the same
purposebutdon’tclutterthemainchart.
A business/financial calculator is very useful for calculating dates in the past and
forward. The Sharp EL-735 is suitable. Dates can be calculated in the MS Excel
spreadsheet on the accompanying CD. This spreadsheet table can be created by placing
in cell A1 the reference date to be calculated from, in cell B1 put 631, in cell C1 put the
formulaeof“=sum(A1+B1)”.Dothisfor631,668,1262,1290and 1336 days. 630,
668, 1260, 1290 and 1336 solar degrees will be at dates further on calculated by using
an ephemeris.
You will need an ephemeris for calculation of solar degrees. When calculating 668°,
add 660° to the reference date to determine the month, and then add another 8°. Use the
same procedure for 1336°. When calculating the 30 solar degree dates for the cycle of
360°, go to the next month and locate the degree date that is the closest to the one you
are referencing from. If it is on a weekend, or other non trading day then the reaction
will occur on the closest trading day to the calculated date but watch both the Monday
and Friday.
To apply the timing calculations to computer charts you will need a calendar day and a
solar degree count tool. By setting the degree counter to intervals of 30° you will pick
up the 1/12th sections of the 360° cycle. This same method can also be used with the
degree counts for 668 and 1336 degrees. The calendar day counter is set to 631 day
increments and 668 days to calculate these times.
.
Page.134

--- PAGE 136 of 148 ---

Page.135
Below is the daily bar chart of the Australian SPI futures market
used by Charles Shephard.
 
 .

--- PAGE 137 of 148 ---

Page.136
Time cycles and Price cycles aligning at reversals in the DJIA
 
 .
 
Supplementary Information
Time cycles and Price cycles aligning at reversals in the SPI 200

--- PAGE 138 of 148 ---

Page.137
Time and Price aligning at the June 26th 05 reversal in CBOT Soybeans
Markets set up their cyclical patterns soon after initial trading.
 
 .

--- PAGE 139 of 148 ---

Page.138
Fibonacci divisions can also be applied to time and price divisions
 
 .

--- PAGE 140 of 148 ---

Page.139
Indian “Nifty”reacting at the divisions of 1260.
Nasdaq 100 reacting at the divisions of 1260.
 
 .

--- PAGE 141 of 148 ---

Page.140
When calculating divisions of cycles in different markets you may need to experiment
with the placement of zeros and decimals.
The following chart of the EURO required division of the cycle numbers by 1000.
S&P E mini: From the 2000 high at 1574.5 less 62.5% of 1290 was within 1 point of the
2002 low at 767.25 (1574.5 x 62.5% of 1290 = 768.25)
 
 .

--- PAGE 142 of 148 ---

Page.141
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
The above chart of CGF and the below chart of BSL traded on the Australian stock
exchange showing the reactions at price levels determined by the key cycles and the
trading opportunities highlighted as these markets indicated their intentions at the
reactions.
Note the additional support and resistance levels provided by the Gann angles and trend
lines on the chart of BSL below.
 
 .
 
Gann’swords“a surebuy”withreferencetohis tradein“Eggs”from hisstockand
commodity courses is applicable to the set up shown below. The main factors of Trend
direction, reaction to a price cycle level on a time cycle date is all that is required to
safely trade these set ups.

--- PAGE 143 of 148 ---

Page.142
The 7 year cycle divided by the Gann percentages of 1/8ths and 1/3rds, calculated from
the DJIA March 2000 high and giving the levels at times of important reversal.
 
 .
 
The 7 year cycle or 2556 days when divided by 16ths, 32nds and 12ths gave levels
where the S&P 500 met resistance and support that often was the point of important
reversals.

--- PAGE 144 of 148 ---

Page.143
The prophetic cycle of “times, times and half a time” with the additional prophetic leap 
month of 30 days is “1290”.When calculated from the important support level in March
2005 and divided according to the Gann percentages gave levels that future important
reversals occurred at.
 
 .
 
Cycles and their parts will form resistance and support levels that when predetermined
and drawn onto a chart will provide valuable information as to where a market may turn.
In the following chart of the Australian SPI the price action around these areas was
useful to monitor prior to trade entry and exits using intraday charts.
Note the 4868 level that has provided support and shows an area beneath the intraday
swing turns where stops can be placed for long positions.

--- PAGE 145 of 148 ---

Page.144
Price: from 1983 low of 458 to 2006 high at 5407 = 4949
Note the double “49”. Numbers when doubled or tripled are of greater importance.
Price: from 2002 high to 2003 low (837) to 2006 high = 3565 or 1336 x 266.6%
Time: from 12 Nov 2002 to 10 May 2006 = 1260 degrees
Constantly monitoring a market as it progresses thru “time and price”and familiarity
with the key numbers is often all that is required to identify a reversal as it occurs.
 
 .

--- PAGE 146 of 148 ---

In the above chart of the Australian SPI 200 stock index futures market the highlighted
lows occurred at alignments of the key cycles in TIME and at percentages of the key
cycles in PRICE.
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
Using multiples of the cycle of 1336 (in this case 4 cycles) added to the 2002 low of
7180 on the DJIA projected a price level of 10740. Note the support at this level and the
finalmoveupwardsaftera“triple”bottomatthedateof668degrees from September
2004.
 .
Page.145

--- PAGE 147 of 148 ---

Page.146
The Dow Jones Industrial Averages reached a high of 12,579 on the 18th December
2006. This was a level of resistance. Note the mathematical calculations that gave a
price value of 10,080 or 8 times 1260.
Subtracting the bear market range of 4,673 or 3.5 cycles of 1336 from 10,080 results in
5,407. Add 5,407 to the October 2002 low of 7,180 results in a price level of 12,587.
This is just 8 points short of the target level of 12,579.
By calculating multiples of the other cycles and using similar calculations you will
forecast other price levels at where reversals can occur.
Familiarity with the main cycles would have forewarned of the 20th February 2007
reversal date.
 
 .

--- PAGE 148 of 148 ---

Of all the techniques used in technical analysis, the use of time cycles is the only
method that allows you to project and anticipate a time in the future where a market
may change its trend.
This is possible because price action unfolds in repetitive rhythms over time. WD Gann
used his knowledge of cycles to make incredibly accurate market forecasts. Because a
cycle literally refers to a circle, Gann knew that the harmonic divisions of the circle
would be accurate in determining the important divisions of a circle.
Time and Price progress according to the same cycles. Gann stated that time and price
can be treated in the same way. Time is measured on a chart from a reference point left
to right. Price is measured as it moves upward or downward from a reference point. The
important increments in which to make these measurements are the key cycles detailed.
Gann was an avid reader of the bible. He stated in his romantic novel Tunnel thru the
Air that everything one needed to know could be found in the bible. The key cycles and
their method of application detailed in the preceding pages are to be found in biblical
references.
Biblical prophecynumbersusethe“dayforayear”principle.Thatis,thenumberssuch
as 1260, 1290 or 1336 can be used to calculate any time unit including solar degrees.
The number 1,000 was also detailed as a cycle in Tunnel thru the Air. Note the DJIA
chart on page 135 and the 1,000 day time period from this markets high in January 2000
to the October 2002 low.
Prophecy numbers intersect both smaller and larger numbers of like kind, on both a one
tenthandatentimesratio.Forexample49and4900,oralarge“wheel”intersectinga
small“wheel”.Another example is 63, 630 and 6,300. The number 1336 is 3.6525 x
365.25 - Earths cycle, and 1260 and 1290 are both derived from the symbolic Hebrew
360 days to a year.
It has commonly been used by Gann analysts to base most cyclical calculations on the
number 360. However as has been shown the best use of this number is when it is used
in its biblical interpretations of 1260 and 1290.
The bible refers to“atime,times,andahalfatime”regarding the prophetic number 360.
It is described in the bible how the number 1290 is the prophetic 1260 with the addition
of the leap month of 30 days added to it. That is why on occasions the number 390 is
also important. Also anything that is repeated three times in the bible is exceptionally
important. Gann stated in Tunnel thru the Air thatthe“threedaysandthreenightsinthe
bellyofthewhale”from Jonahwasmostimportant.Youwillfind“triple”numbers
such as 666 and 888 often are present at reversals.
Why do markets react to biblical numbers? Biblical numbers indicated a span of time
that passed before things came to an end or then began a new beginning. It may be
simply no more than the collective unconscious of traders recognising numbers that
symbolically indicated endings and beginnings. The planetary cycles appear to have
their cyclical rhythm embedded in our behaviour also and they often add to the effects
of biblical numbers at times of market reversals.
 .
Page.147
 
Origin of Cycles

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 787040443-552284325-Advanced-Group.pdf
Total Pages: 72
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 72 ---

Advanced Group
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/ADVANCEDWDGANN/conversations/messages/1040
Here is the picture. AB swing was used for fan construction and it projected point C.
The secret is to know which combination of lines is important per situation, what to look 
first, second,...
It works every time the same way, but in different variations. 
Most people get lost in lines and misuse them. They are action/reaction lines, not your 
fantasy lines.
That's the basic idea.
Those should be constructed first to grasp the pattern, and then point per day angles 
should be constructed.
That proves to be very effective.
If you do astrology, make astro chart for point A and another for point B, measure the 
distance between Merc on first chart and second. Project arc into the future
and see Sun hitting that degree at point C. To figure smaller moves make astro chart for 
every reversal and find moon pattern.
Can't say more than that. That's enough said to put Gann educators out of Biz or you 
never learn even if you hire an educator.
Do your homework.
////////// olga morales
For instance Earth moves 1 degree per day so you plot $1 $10 10cent per day etc. Venus 
moves what... 360/225days = $1.60 $16 16 cents etc. per day. This is what Lorin means 
when he says: "S&P is moving at the speed of Venus". Some people say price bounces in 
a channel formed by the slower moving outer planets at the speed(s) of the faster moving 
inner planets. Perhaps is does for some issues.
One thing to keep in mind is the solar system does not stop moving for weekends and 
holidays so if you do this right, your speed lines will be discontinuous on a trading day 
chart.
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
There are number of ways to use Gann lines:
One is relative, shown in recent post - means relative to the last price swing, where line 
connecting swing high and swing low =1/1 in relation to the next swing.
Advanced Group 
https://groups.vyahoo.com/neo/groups/AD VANCEDWDGANN/conversations/messages/1040 
Here is the picture. AB swing was used for fan construction and it projected point C. 
The secret is to know which combination of lines is important per situation, what to look 
first, second... 
It works every time the same way, but in different variations. 
Most people get lost in lines and misuse them. They are action/reaction lines, not your 
fantasy lines. 
That's the basic idea. 
Those should be constructed first to grasp the pattern, and then point per day angles 
should be constructed. 
That proves to be very effective. 
If you do astrology, make astro chart for point A and another for point B, measure the 
distance between Merc on first chart and second. Project arc into the future 
and see Sun hitting that degree at point C. To figure smaller moves make astro chart for 
every reversal and find moon pattern. 
Can't say more than that. That's enough said to put Gann educators out of Biz or you 
never learn even if you hire an educator. 
Do your homework. 
MI/////1/ olga morales 
For instance Earth moves | degree per day so you plot $1 $10 10cent per day etc. Venus 
moves what... 360/225days = $1.60 $16 16 cents etc. per day. This is what Lorin means 
when he says: "S&P is moving at the speed of Venus". Some people say price bounces in 
a channel formed by the slower moving outer planets at the speed(s) of the faster moving 
inner planets. Perhaps is does for some issues. 
One thing to keep in mind is the solar system does not stop moving for weekends and 
holidays so if you do this right, your speed lines will be discontinuous on a trading day 
chart. 
\\\\\\\\ 
There are number of ways to use Gann lines: 
One is relative, shown in recent post - means relative to the last price swing, where line 
connecting swing high and swing low =1/1 in relation to the next swing.

--- PAGE 2 of 72 ---

The other one is kosher Gann, where 1/1 slope = 1 point per trading day. That's what you 
are talking about.
Also there is a simple way of constructing those 1point per day angles even your software
isn't designed for that.
Here is how to do that:
There are about 250 trading days in a year, that means 1/1 line will travel 250 points per 
year. So just draw a line from the first date of one month to the first date of the same 
month but in next year from 0 to 250. If you look at it that way, it will be easy and 
accurate enough because you deal with multi-month average.
Software isn't really a limitation. Your mind is.
According to Gann those are just the mathematical averages. It isn't necessary to make 
1X1 look 45 degree geometrically on chart. As long as 1X1 retain 1 point per trading day 
ratio you can resize the chart on your screen the way you want and angle would be valid 
as long as it keeps aspect ratio. So it isn't actual 45*, rather virtual or mathematic.
Even lines drawn in latest excel keep aspect ratio with the chart.
That what it is - the aspect ratio, not geometrical angle.
What's so difficult to understand?
In similar manner you can construct any angle:
Let's say you want some exotic Venus planetary trend line. Let's say you decided go 
Galactic, become sort of GalActor of the stock trade. Wow, that's like from sci-fi movies!
At least sounds cool. Do you think you need a special ware to look that cool? No. Just use
your brains, it's plain arithmetic - 5th grade or so:
Look up astronomical year tables:
Earth/Sun year 365 1/4 days per 360 degree. Means 360/365.25=0.9856 
points per calendar day or simply draw a square 1 year long and $360 or $3.6 or $0.36, 
etc, points high(depending on the market). Diagonal would be a Sun planetary line.
So what about Venus? Venus year is 0.62 earth or it would be a 1/0.62-1.6129 times 
sharper line - 360X1.6129=580.64/year.
So here is your yearly average Venus speed, draw $580X1year square and use diagonal. 
Real easy at least to construct and look cool. 
Making money will take more then that.
Squaring time with price means several things in Gann's writing. 
At certain places he refers to linear squaring - #days=#points in 1/1 ratio or other natural 
ratios.
The other one is kosher Gann, where 1/1 slope = | point per trading day. That's what you 
are talking about. 
Also there is a simple way of constructing those | point per day angles even your software 
isn't designed for that. 
Here is how to do that: 
There are about 250 trading days in a year, that means 1/1 line will travel 250 points per 
year. So just draw a line from the first date of one month to the first date of the same 
month but in next year from 0 to 250. If you look at it that way, it will be easy and 
accurate enough because you deal with multi-month average. 
Software isn't really a limitation. Your mind is. 
According to Gann those are just the mathematical averages. It isn't necessary to make 
1X1 look 45 degree geometrically on chart. As long as 1X1 retain | point per trading day 
ratio you can resize the chart on your screen the way you want and angle would be valid 
as long as it keeps aspect ratio. So it isn't actual 45*, rather virtual or mathematic. 
Even lines drawn in latest excel keep aspect ratio with the chart. 
That what it is - the aspect ratio, not geometrical angle. 
What's so difficult to understand? 
In similar manner you can construct any angle: 
Let's say you want some exotic Venus planetary trend line. Let's say you decided go 
Galactic, become sort of GalActor of the stock trade. Wow, that's like from sci-fi movies! 
At least sounds cool. Do you think you need a special ware to look that cool? No. Just use 
your brains, it's plain arithmetic - Sth grade or so: 
Look up astronomical year tables: 
Earth/Sun year 365 1/4 days per 360 degree. Means 360/365.25=0.9856 
points per calendar day or simply draw a square | year long and $360 or $3.6 or $0.36, 
etc, points high(depending on the market). Diagonal would be a Sun planetary line. 
So what about Venus? Venus year is 0.62 earth or it would be a 1/0.62-1.6129 times 
sharper line - 360X1.6129=580.64/year. 
So here is your yearly average Venus speed, draw $580X year square and use diagonal. 
Real easy at least to construct and look cool. 
Making money will take more then that. 
Squaring time with price means several things in Gann's writing. 
At certain places he refers to linear squaring - #days=#points in 1/1 ratio or other natural 
ratios.

--- PAGE 3 of 72 ---

The other squaring concept refers to sq9 and to algebraic squares.
Last one is the most mysterious. Even Gann fully understood it he never clearly spelled it
out. Besides practical implementation would require modern computer technology as 
relations are non linear and would be very difficult to draw on paper or calculate by hand 
at times of Gann. All he came with is Sq9 and hexagon charts.
That's easy and works on swings.
But the true power is in merging both - linear and non linear concepts. I didn't see anyone
get to that point. At least it isn't published.
They tried in Gann trader something like that, but I don't think they connected all the 
dots. At least nice try.
It is still a relatively new field. There are many white spots.
/////////////
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/ADVANCEDWDGANN/conversations/messages/1
719
Take your astro prog & alter the ASPECT settings such that have a 3 deg orb with angles 
(in degrees) thus:
24
48
72
96
120
144
168
Your astro chart will now show you all the harmonic aspects (at 24 degree steps) for any 
given date using William Gann's schemata of Wheel of 24.
Now take a look at next week (W/E 27/11/04) with aspects set like this - noting also the 
Mercury Pluto transit and the Venus Uranus trine.
Happy trading!
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/208
I need to give a little history of "Murrey Math". "Murrey Math” is based on a course 
written by W D Gann. When Murrey put his mother into a rest home, he found the course
when he cleaned out her house. He used this material as the basis for “Murrey Math". In 
the early days, he gave Gann credit for the material.
The other squaring concept refers to sq9 and to algebraic squares. 
Last one is the most mysterious. Even Gann fully understood it he never clearly spelled it 
out. Besides practical implementation would require modern computer technology as 
relations are non linear and would be very difficult to draw on paper or calculate by hand 
at times of Gann. All he came with is Sq9 and hexagon charts. 
That's easy and works on swings. 
But the true power is in merging both - linear and non linear concepts. I didn't see anyone 
get to that point. At least it isn't published. 
They tried in Gann trader something like that, but I don't think they connected all the 
dots. At least nice try. 
It is still a relatively new field. There are many white spots. 
MILT 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/ADVANCEDWDGANN/conversations/messages/1 
119 
Take your astro prog & alter the ASPECT settings such that have a 3 deg orb with angles 
(in degrees) thus: 
24 
48 
72 
96 
120 
144 
168 
Your astro chart will now show you all the harmonic aspects (at 24 degree steps) for any 
given date using William Gann's schemata of Wheel of 24. 
Now take a look at next week (W/E 27/11/04) with aspects set like this - noting also the 
Mercury Pluto transit and the Venus Uranus trine. 
Happy trading! 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/208 
I need to give a little history of "Murrey Math". "Murrey Math” is based on a course 
written by W D Gann. When Murrey put his mother into a rest home, he found the course 
when he cleaned out her house. He used this material as the basis for “Murrey Math". In 
the early days, he gave Gann credit for the material.

--- PAGE 4 of 72 ---

As the years passed, Murrey has "forgotten" where the ideas came from :-) 
There are several ideas in the course which Murrey did NOT understand correctly. That 
is why some of the techniques seem great and some seem a little "strange". The starting 
point for the 4th quarter is actually the midpoint between the Earth's perihelion and 
aphelion. This date is approximately October 2nd. The date can be shifted due to trading 
days or lunar aspects (Full/New Moons, etc) which occur close to this date. Murrey’s 
"birthday, etc" is pure nonsense. If you have a copy of this particular Gann course you 
know EXACTLY where "Murrey Math” came from. I have "Murrey Math" charts which 
I drew over 10 years before I ever saw the "Murrey Math" manual :-)
Best wishes,
Bonnie Lee Hill
This was a course taught one-on-one to a very small group of people. This course has 
never been publicly printed.
In order to take the course, you submitted your natal information to Gann who then 
decided IF he would teach you. The price was quite high for this course.
Best wishes,
Bonnie
Rule #1: Plot a stock/commodity in the units in which it is traded. Murry breaks this rule 
in a BIG way. He wants to plot everything in the range from zero to $100. That makes the
charts for things like sugar look VERY silly. THM also plots commodities like wheat in 
zero to $100. When you draw the charts, wheat walks right though the middle of the 
Circles of Conflict. This PROVES that the scale is wrong. If you plot wheat prices using 
zero to 100 CENTS, the price action looks much better. Bottom line, PLOT a thing in the 
units you use to TRADE the thing :-)
Rule #2: How the starting dates for the four quarters are aligned. Murrey did not 
understand this, and/or did not want to make it too obvious to the reader. Murrey Math 
students have to contact THM once a year to be TOLD the start of the fourth quarter. 
They wait with baited breath for THM's decree :-)
Rule #3: What price range to put on a chart. I can't explain it all here.
Several other basic rules.
Over 5 years ago, I sent THM a letter in which I listed over 60 errors in his book -- typos,
math errors, and errors in technique.
As the years passed, Murrey has "forgotten" where the ideas came from :-) 
There are several ideas in the course which Murrey did NOT understand correctly. That 
is why some of the techniques seem great and some seem a little "strange". The starting 
point for the 4th quarter is actually the midpoint between the Earth's perihelion and 
aphelion. This date is approximately October 2nd. The date can be shifted due to trading 
days or lunar aspects (Full/New Moons, etc) which occur close to this date. Murrey’s 
"birthday, etc" is pure nonsense. If you have a copy of this particular Gann course you 
know EXACTLY where "Murrey Math” came from. I have "Murrey Math" charts which 
I drew over 10 years before I ever saw the "Murrey Math" manual :-) 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie Lee Hill 
This was a course taught one-on-one to a very small group of people. This course has 
never been publicly printed. 
In order to take the course, you submitted your natal information to Gann who then 
decided IF he would teach you. The price was quite high for this course. 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie 
Rule #1: Plot a stock/commodity in the units in which it is traded. Murry breaks this rule 
in a BIG way. He wants to plot everything in the range from zero to $100. That makes the 
charts for things like sugar look VERY silly. THM also plots commodities like wheat in 
zero to $100. When you draw the charts, wheat walks right though the middle of the 
Circles of Conflict. This PROVES that the scale is wrong. If you plot wheat prices using 
zero to 100 CENTS, the price action looks much better. Bottom line, PLOT a thing in the 
units you use to TRADE the thing :-) 
Rule #2: How the starting dates for the four quarters are aligned. Murrey did not 
understand this, and/or did not want to make it too obvious to the reader. Murrey Math 
students have to contact THM once a year to be TOLD the start of the fourth quarter. 
They wait with baited breath for THM's decree :-) 
Rule #3: What price range to put on a chart. I can't explain it all here. 
Several other basic rules. 
Over 5 years ago, I sent THM 
a letter in which I listed over 60 errors in his book -- typos, 
math errors, and errors in technique.

--- PAGE 5 of 72 ---

He ignored my letter, and never corrected a thing. I put up MY web pages on "Murrey 
Math" before THM put up his first web site.
I attempted to provide something which would allow the reader to understand WHAT he 
was trying to learn.
The original Gann course is not for sale at any price.
Best wishes,
Bonnie
Actually, quite a few courses/methods were developed by Gann, and have rarely/never 
been seen by the public. Today several of these are stored in "the chest" (if you know 
what I mean :-)
All researchers do the same thing. A few months ago, I wrote a long message on the natal
wheat chart at WITS. That message was only the preface to a "book" about wheat which 
is stored in six 3-inch binders. That is one of my "courses" which has never been seen in 
public :-)
Best wishes,
Bonnie Lee Hill
How have I gotten my material?
1. I have studied Gann for over 20 years
2. I live "close" to Gann's home
3. I have goodies to trade
4. I belong to several private networks
5. I am willing to buy "a pile of papers" in order to find a gem
Best wishes,
Bonnie Lee Hill
Yes, I agree that you must learn Astrology in order to understand Gann. Even Gann's 
more technical books have phrases such as "Cardinal Cross". Without studying 
Astrology, how can you hope to understand what Gann meant?
> Also would you recommend the Baumring course offered by SSI as
> a source of learning Gann secrets.
He ignored my letter, and never corrected a thing. I put up MY web pages on "Murrey 
Math" before THM put up his first web site. 
I attempted to provide something which would allow the reader to understand WHAT he 
was trying to learn. 
The original Gann course is not for sale at any price. 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie 
Actually, quite a few courses/methods were developed by Gann, and have rarely/never 
been seen by the public. Today several of these are stored in "the chest" (if you know 
what I mean :-) 
All researchers do the same thing. A few months ago, I wrote a long message on the natal 
wheat chart at WITS. That message was only the preface to a "book" about wheat which 
is Stored in six 3-inch binders. That is one of my "courses" which has never been seen in 
public :-) 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie Lee Hill 
How have I gotten my material? 
1. I have studied Gann for over 20 years 
2. I live "close" to Gann's home 
3. [have goodies to trade 
4. I belong to several private networks 
5. I am willing to buy "a pile of papers" in order to find a gem 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie Lee Hill 
Yes, I agree that you must learn Astrology in order to understand Gann. Even Gann's 
more technical books have phrases such as "Cardinal Cross". Without studying 
Astrology, how can you hope to understand what Gann meant? 
> Also would you recommend the Baumring course offered by SSI as 
>a source of learning Gann secrets.

--- PAGE 6 of 72 ---

I would read the books on Gann's Reading List before I studied the Baumring course.
Best wishes,
Bonnie
There is a very simple reason as to why you are confused about how to define Murrey's 
8ths. He is NOT consistent in how he does this. His software can be even MORE 
inconsistent :-)
Let's pretend we have a stock which trades at less that $100 dollars. We know we quote 
the price in dollar and cents. Therefore, the LARGEST square we could draw would be 
one which showed the range from $0 to $100. However, either the paper would need to 
be VERY big, or the plot would be a tiny wiggly line somewhere
on the page :-) We know that this large square is divided into 8 sections -- the lines are at 
$0.00, $12.50, $25.00, $37.50, $50.00, $62.50, $75.00, $87.50, and $100.00.
So, let's save a little paper, and figure out WHERE in that big square our stock is trading. 
Let's assume it is at $39. 
The price is less that $50.00 and more than $25.00. 
The next most reasonable chart would be drawn with the top line at $50.00
and the bottom line at $25.00. You will find that most of the time, charts with the ODD 
lines at the top and bottom seem to just work better :-) Our price of $39 sits a little above 
the middle of the chart. We will also have to set the time frame, but I am not worrying 
about that at the moment. However, if we are near the middle of the time frame, we 
DON'T want the price in the middle of the chart. This would put the price in the centre of 
the BIG central Circle of Conflict -- a definite no-no :-)
The chart that runs from $25.00 to $50.00 is 1/4th the size of our big $0.00 to $100.00 
(the REAL chart). We should always keep this REAL chart in the back of our mind. This 
second chart may be great for daily price bars, but it is TOO big
for shorter term trading. Again, we either use VERY BIG paper, or we use a portion of 
that price range. As the range gets smaller and smaller, we can't always keep the 
odd/even relationship we started with. However, we CAN remember what numbers were 
important from the BIG chart. 
Let me write out a list of prices with odd/even characteristics:
9th line, Odd: $100.00 -- $50.00 -- $43.75 -- $40.62
8th line, Even: $87.50 --
7th line, Odd: $75.00 -- $43.75 -- $40.62 -- $39.06
6th line, Even: $62.50 --
5th line, Odd: $50.00 -- $37.50 -- $37.50 -- $37.50
I would read the books on Gann's Reading List before I studied the Baumring course. 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie 
There is a very simple reason as to why you are confused about how to define Murrey's 
8ths. He is NOT consistent in how he does this. His software can be even MORE 
inconsistent :-) 
Let's pretend we have a stock which trades at less that $100 dollars. We know we quote 
the price in dollar and cents. Therefore, the LARGEST square we could draw would be 
one which showed the range from $0 to $100. However, either the paper would need to 
be VERY big, or the plot would be a tiny wiggly line somewhere 
on the page :-) We know that this large square is divided into 8 sections -- the lines are at 
$0.00, $12.50, $25.00, $37.50, $50.00, $62.50, $75.00, $87.50, and $100.00. 
So, let's save a little paper, and figure out WHERE in that big square our stock is trading. 
Let's assume it is at $39. 
The price is less that $50.00 and more than $25.00. 
The next most reasonable chart would be drawn with the top line at $50.00 
and the bottom line at $25.00. You will find that most of the time, charts with the ODD 
lines at the top and bottom seem to just work better :-) Our price of $39 sits a little above 
the middle of the chart. We will also have to set the time frame, but I am not worrying 
about that at the moment. However, if we are near the middle of the time frame, we 
DON'T want the price in the middle of the chart. This would put the price in the centre of 
the BIG central Circle of Conflict -- a definite no-no :-) 
The chart that runs from $25.00 to $50.00 is 1/4th the size of our big $0.00 to $100.00 
(the REAL chart). We should always keep this REAL chart in the back of our mind. This 
second chart may be great for daily price bars, but it is TOO big 
for shorter term trading. Again, we either use VERY BIG paper, or we use a portion of 
that price range. As the range gets smaller and smaller, we can't always keep the 
odd/even relationship we started with. However, we CAN remember what numbers were 
important from the BIG chart. 
Let me write out a list of prices with odd/even characteristics: 
9th line, Odd: $100.00 -- $50.00 -- $43.75 -- $40.62 
8th line, Even: $87.50 -- 
7th line, Odd: $75.00 -- $43.75 -- $40.62 -- $39.06 
6th line, Even: $62.50 -- 
Sth line, Odd: $50.00 -- $37.50 -- $37.50 -- $37.50

--- PAGE 7 of 72 ---

4th line, Even: $37.50 --
3rd line, Odd: $25.00 -- $31.25 -- $34.37 -- $35.94
2nd line, Even: $12.50 --
1st line, Odd: $0.00 -- $25.00 -- $31.25 -- $34.37
You will notice that $37.50 is an important price in ALL the chart ranges listed above. It 
is an important price in $0-100, and so we kept it as an important price in $40.625-
$34.375. We are CONSISTENT in the importance we attach to the 8ths.
As we move to smaller and smaller price ranges, there are two ways of looking at the 
operation. Number 1: we are saving paper by only printing a portion of the BIG CHART. 
Number 2: we are holding a magnifying glass over our BIG CHART and looking at only 
a tiny portion. However, the BIG CHART is always there, and we don't change our 
ranges so that we violate the characteristics of that BIG CHART.
You can find the Murrey divisions color coded at my web site. The
URL is http://www.flash.net/~blhill/pages/murrey.html
Best wishes,
Bonnie
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/278
Yes. Support and resistance in price can be calculated by measuring the difference 
between the current price and some historical extreme and converting the result to an 
angle using the square of 9. This was the basis of my approach to markets for quite a 
while. One can build a successful trading method around this. Calculating support and 
resistance in this way also led me to some important breakthroughs in understanding 
some subtle points about the use of the square of 9.
However, what one would really like to know is the magnitude of the bounce to expect 
once a support or resistance level is hit. I was only able to determine this after I learned 
how to square time with price. In my opinion time plays no independent role in 
determining market swings; it does however provide important information when 
coordinated properly with price calculations via the square of 9.
Carl 
The magnitude of the bounce is determined by the magnitude of the historical high/low 
squaring current price & time. Concentrate on calculating inner angles
of the square of nine not outer(Carl provided the formula of outer angles in post 252).
4th line, Even: $37.50 -- 
3rd line, Odd: $25.00 -- $31.25 -- $34.37 -- $35.94 
2nd line, Even: $12.50 -- 
Ist line, Odd: $0.00 -- $25.00 -- $31.25 -- $34.37 
You will notice that $37.50 is an important price in ALL the chart ranges listed above. It 
is an important price in $0-100, and so we kept it as an important price in $40.625- 
$34.375. We are CONSISTENT in the importance we attach to the 8ths. 
As we move to smaller and smaller price ranges, there are two ways of looking at the 
operation. Number 1: we are saving paper by only printing a portion of the BIG CHART. 
Number 2: we are holding a magnifying glass over our BIG CHART and looking at only 
a tiny portion. However, the BIG CHART is always there, and we don't change our 
ranges so that we violate the characteristics of that BIG CHART. 
You can find the Murrey divisions color coded at my web site. The 
URL is http://www. flash.net/~blhill/pages/murrey.html 
Best wishes, 
Bonnie 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/278 
Yes. Support and resistance in price can be calculated by measuring the difference 
between the current price and some historical extreme and converting the result to an 
angle using the square of 9. This was the basis of my approach to markets for quite a 
while. One can build a successful trading method around this. Calculating support and 
resistance in this way also led me to some important breakthroughs in understanding 
some subtle points about the use of the square of 9. 
However, what one would really like to know is the magnitude of the bounce to expect 
once a support or resistance level is hit. I was only able to determine this after I learned 
how to square time with price. In my opinion time plays no independent role in 
determining market swings; it does however provide important information when 
coordinated properly with price calculations via the square of 9. 
Carl 
The magnitude of the bounce is determined by the magnitude of the historical high/low 
squaring current price & time. Concentrate on calculating inner angles 
of the square of nine not outer(Carl provided the formula of outer angles in post 252).

--- PAGE 8 of 72 ---

(((square root of time diff in 2 dates) - (square root of price diff)) / .25) * 45.
Paras in post #284 gave a formula for "inside angles".
This formula differs from the one for ordinary angles in the square of 9 which I posted in 
post # 252 in four ways, the second of which is only cosmetic.
First, Paras' formula looks at the difference of square roots instead of square roots 
themselves; this is necessary if one is to compute the angle between price and time. 
Secondly, instead of multiplying the difference between square roots by 180, Paras' 
formula first divides by 1/4 and then multiplies by 45; this is only a cosmetic difference 
because the result is the same as if we had just multiplied by 180.
Third, Paras doesn't subtract 225 from the result. This means that in contrast to the square
of 9 I use, Paras' formula places the squares of natural numbers on the 0 and 180 degree 
angles.
Finally, Paras doesn't reduce the result "mod 360" to be sure that the answer is a number 
between 0 and 360. I think this was just an oversight.
I don't use this "inner angle" formula in my work because I think it is important to 
subtract 225 and thus put the squares of natural numbers on the 315 and 135 degree 
angles.
Carl
I have yet to encounter an example of a market or stock that doesn't respond to support 
and resistance calculated by squaring price with time in the square of 9.
Of course, a very thinly traded stock or commodity might fail this test but I don't pay 
attention to these.
I am inclined to think that some sort of natural law is at work, but I can't for the life of me
imagine what it might be.
I did correspond for a while with a former member of the CBOT who used techniques 
similar to mine. He was convinced that the only explanation for the square of 9's success 
was manipulation. He believed that all markets were controlled by a gigantic, world-wide
financial conspiracy who manipulated markets for their own benefit.
(((square root of time diff in 2 dates) - (square root of price diff)) / .25) * 45. 
Paras in post #284 gave a formula for "inside angles". 
This formula differs from the one for ordinary angles in the square of 9 which I posted in 
post # 252 in four ways, the second of which is only cosmetic. 
First, Paras' formula looks at the difference of square roots instead of square roots 
themselves; this is necessary if one is to compute the angle between price and time. 
Secondly, instead of multiplying the difference between square roots by 180, Paras' 
formula first divides by 1/4 and then multiplies by 45; this is only a cosmetic difference 
because the result is the same as if we had just multiplied by 180. 
Third, Paras doesn't subtract 225 from the result. This means that in contrast to the square 
of 9 I use, Paras' formula places the squares of natural numbers on the 0 and 180 degree 
angles. 
Finally, Paras doesn't reduce the result "mod 360" to be sure that the answer is a number 
between 0 and 360. I think this was just an oversight. 
I don't use this "inner angle" formula in my work because I think it is important to 
subtract 225 and thus put the squares of natural numbers on the 315 and 135 degree 
angles. 
Carl 
I have yet to encounter an example of a market or stock that doesn't respond to support 
and resistance calculated by squaring price with time in the square of 9. 
Of course, a very thinly traded stock or commodity might fail this test but I don't pay 
attention to these. 
I am inclined to think that some sort of natural law is at work, but I can't for the life of me 
imagine what it might be. 
I did correspond for a while with a former member of the CBOT who used techniques 
similar to mine. He was convinced that the only explanation for the square of 9's success 
was manipulation. He believed that all markets were controlled by a gigantic, world-wide 
financial conspiracy who manipulated markets for their own benefit.

--- PAGE 9 of 72 ---

I can understand why he believed what he did because of the uncanny performance of 
one particular method of squaring price with time. 
Moreover, one finds symbols which refer to the square of 9 and to this method on all 
major exchanges in the Western world. Typically these take the form of a square divided 
by two diagonal lines, a square divided into 4 smaller squares, oblique architectural 
references to the number 45 and representations of the signs of the zodiac.
Personally, I don't believe in conspiracies. My opinion is that such a large conspiracy 
could never keep itself secret for long. Too much money and power would be at stake. 
Carl
> Hi Paras,
> Thankyou for sharing the information
> regarding the inner angle
> formula (below),...it was impressive that you knew
> of this & pointed this
> out while Carl had not .
> I wonder if I can ask you a question regarding
> your post below from GG.
> When you say the magnitude of the bounce is
> determined by the magnitude
> of the historical high/low squaring current price &
> time...I am trying to
> understand the full meaning of this statement.
> Would I be correct in saying that if the inner
> angle is 90 degrees (or a
> multiple thereof...then the magnitude of the bounce
> will be maximum ..since
> price /time are squared...strong bounces will also
> occur from multiples of
> 45 degrees....but the further the inner angle ls
> from a multiple of 90 (or
> 45 degrees)..the smaller (proportionally) is the
> bounce expected.
> Or is it only correct to derive Price time
> squared info from the inner
> angle (ie if close to a 90 degree multiple)...but
> distance from a 90 degree
> multiple is not proportional to the size of the
> expected bounce...ie I was
> wondering if the degree of the bounce or
> size/magnitude of the expected
I can understand why he believed what he did because of the uncanny performance of 
one particular method of squaring price with time. 
Moreover, one finds symbols which refer to the square of 9 and to this method on all 
major exchanges in the Western world. Typically these take the form of a square divided 
by two diagonal lines, a square divided into 4 smaller squares, oblique architectural 
references to the number 45 and representations of the signs of the zodiac. 
Personally, I don't believe in conspiracies. My opinion 1s that such a large conspiracy 
could never keep itself secret for long. Too much money and power would be at stake. 
Carl 
> Hi Paras, 
> Thankyou for sharing the information 
> regarding the inner angle 
> formula (below),...1t was impressive that you knew 
> of this & pointed this 
> out while Carl had not . 
> I wonder if I can ask you a question regarding 
> your post below from GG. 
> When you say the magnitude of the bounce is 
> determined by the magnitude 
> of the historical high/low squaring current price & 
> time...I am trying to 
> understand the full meaning of this statement. 
> Would I be correct in saying that if the inner 
> angle is 90 degrees (or a 
> multiple thereof...then the magnitude of the bounce 
> will be maximum ..since 
> price /time are squared...strong bounces will also 
> occur from multiples of 
> 45 degrees....but the further the inner angle Is 
> from a multiple of 90 (or 
> 45 degrees)..the smaller (proportionally) is the 
> bounce expected. 
> Or is it only correct to derive Price time 
> squared info from the inner 
> angle (ie if close to a 90 degree multiple)...but 
> distance from a 90 degree 
> multiple is not proportional to the size of the 
> expected bounce...ie I was 
> wondering if the degree of the bounce or 
> size/magnitude of the expected

--- PAGE 10 of 72 ---

> bounce was quantifiable from the inner angle number.
> For example .I did a calc this weekend & the inner
> angle was 92 degrees..so
> I would expect & important low at this point (it was
> calc on a low on 21/9
> for an Australian stock that I follow)
> But consider 2 other make believe answers just to
> illustrate my question
> ....one the inner angle is 32 degree while second
> example the inner angle is
> 85 degrees.....Can we say the bounce from the second
> inner angle (assuming
> it was true) would be stronger than a bounce from a
> 32 degree inner angle,
> because 85 degrees is closer to a multiple of 90
> degrees? ..or am I trying
> to read to much into the inner angle information.
> Thanks again for providing the "inner angle formula"
> Regards
> Michael
Michael, 
Let me be honest here. I have not found a single method on Square of 9 which tells me 
the magnitude in price and time going forward. Then again I have not learned all 14 
ways. What I know from very credible sources from the Street is that the magnitude can 
be calculated by the proportion of the pivot you are squaring the price and time with. If 
you square it with bigger pivot then you get a bigger turn and so on. Then again this is 
one technique. Other one is as you pointed out that 90,180,270... are stronger than 30s 
As I mentioned before that there are 8 + 6 = 14 different ways you can calculate from 
sq9. Above technique is only part of one way you can find price and time targets. 
Where can you find all 14 techniques ? 
Well, you have work the commodity pits - if you can pay for the seat : - )
Paras
Paras,
 
You have lost me here. I asked a simple question as to where you discovered there were 
14 different ways to square time and price.  I'm assuming your "8+6=14" has some 
relevance here? Perhaps referring to 8 time and 6 price techniques??  But your reference 
to the commodity pits and of course your NON answer, is actually the response I 
> bounce was quantifiable from the inner angle number. 
> For example .I did a calc this weekend & the inner 
> angle was 92 degrees..so 
>I would expect & important low at this point (it was 
> calc on a low on 21/9 
> for an Australian stock that I follow) 
> But consider 2 other make believe answers just to 
> illustrate my question 
> ....one the inner angle is 32 degree while second 
> example the inner angle is 
> 85 degrees.....Can we say the bounce from the second 
> inner angle (assuming 
> it was true) would be stronger than a bounce from a 
> 32 degree inner angle, 
> because 85 degrees is closer to a multiple of 90 
> degrees? ..or am I trying 
> to read to much into the inner angle information. 
> Thanks again for providing the "Inner angle formula" 
> Regards 
> Michael 
Michael, 
Let me be honest here. I have not found a single method on Square of 9 which tells me 
the magnitude in price and time going forward. Then again I have not learned all 14 
ways. What I know from very credible sources from the Street is that the magnitude can 
be calculated by the proportion of the pivot you are squaring the price and time with. If 
you square it with bigger pivot then you get a bigger turn and so on. Then again this is 
one technique. Other one is as you pointed out that 90,180,270... are stronger than 30s 
As I mentioned before that there are 8 + 6 = 14 different ways you can calculate from 
sq9. Above technique is only part of one way you can find price and time targets. 
Where can you find all 14 techniques ? 
Well, you have work the commodity pits - if you can pay for the seat : - ) 
Paras 
Paras, 
You have lost me here. I asked a simple question as to where you discovered there were 
14 different ways to square time and price. I'm assuming your "8+6=14" has some 
relevance here? Perhaps referring to 8 time and 6 price techniques?? But your reference 
to the commodity pits and of course your NON answer, is actually the response I

--- PAGE 11 of 72 ---

expected.  People love to give hints on these groups to tease, then we often find there isn't
much to back it up.  To suggest an answer to my question will come by buying a seat on a
commodity exchange is the most ludicrous answer I have ever heard.  That certainly 
would be news to WD Gann and most other knowledgeable people on time/price 
squarings.
I was hoping you'd be more mature and perhaps reference a book(s) or course or simply 
hard work at expanding upon previous persons work...but no...you managed to stay at the 
level of most people who have propaganda to spread.....that doesn't raise your respect 
amongst people here, it does the exact opposite...perhaps you might like to contemplate 
that.
 
Adrian
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/20
Good Morning Dr. Narayan,
1.)  a. "Converting to degrees" is done by taking the time of a swing and multiplying it 
by 180. This will give you the Time Angle of that swing in degrees.
      b. "Converting to degrees" can also be done by taking the square root of the price 
distance of a swing and multiplying it by 180. This will give you the Price Angle of that 
swing in degrees.
2.)  "Mod 360" simply means, if the angle you get from the above calculations is greater 
than 360*, like 420, 720, etc..., then you want to divide that huge angle by 360 to see how
many 360's their are in that huge angle. Then subtract out all of the whole 360's and keep 
only the fraction of the remaining 360 that is left over.
     Example: Say you have a huge angle of 540*.  You want to get the angle down to 
something less than or equal to 360*. So, divide by 360*,  (540*/360*) = 1.5,  then 
subtract out the 1 whole 360*,  (1.5 - 1) = 0.5, this leaves .5 of one 360* which is gives 
you (.5 x 360*) = 180*, and this is your answer. 180* is the angle you want to keep!
Hope this clears it all up for you. :-)
Carson 
To briefly summarize (at least my understanding) of the concept behind this..during the 
1920's & 30's there were several folks (of whom Gann was one) who observed that there 
was a relationship between price moves and the square root of prices. Gann further fine-
tuned this idea by looking at the problem of predicting price moves in geometric terms of 
circles, rectangles, triangles, etc. The square of 9 chart serves a couple of purposes along 
these lines. First, it is a square root calculator (which came in handy before the days of 
computers). It also, however, arranges these "squares" in various angles and geometric 
forms. 
ONE such geometric construct in the chart is a circle within a square. To illustrate, look 
at the chart and find the number 21 in the lower right hand corner of the second square. 
expected. People love to give hints on these groups to tease, then we often find there isn't 
much to back it up. To suggest an answer to my question will come by buying a seat on a 
commodity exchange is the most ludicrous answer I have ever heard. That certainly 
would be news to WD Gann and most other knowledgeable people on time/price 
squarings. 
I was hoping you'd be more mature and perhaps reference a book(s) or course or simply 
hard work at expanding upon previous persons work...but no...you managed to stay at the 
level of most people who have propaganda to spread.....that doesn't raise your respect 
amongst people here, it does the exact opposite...perhaps you might like to contemplate 
that. 
Adrian 
https://zroups.vahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/20 
Good Morning Dr. Narayan, 
1.) a. "Converting to degrees" is done by taking the time of a swing and multiplying it 
by 180. This will give you the Time Angle of that swing in degrees. 
b. "Converting to degrees" can also be done by taking the square root of the price 
distance of a swing and multiplying it by 180. This will give you the Price Angle of that 
swing in degrees. 
2.) "Mod 360" simply means, if the angle you get from the above calculations is greater 
than 360*, like 420, 720, etc..., then you want to divide that huge angle by 360 to see how 
many 360's their are in that huge angle. Then subtract out all of the whole 360's and keep 
only the fraction of the remaining 360 that is left over. 
Example: Say you have a huge angle of 540*. You want to get the angle down to 
something less than or equal to 360*. So, divide by 360*, (540*/360*) = 1.5, then 
subtract out the 1 whole 360*, (1.5 - 1) = 0.5, this leaves .5 of one 360* which is gives 
you (.5 x 360*) = 180*, and this is your answer. 180* is the angle you want to keep! 
Hope this clears it all up for you. :-) 
Carson 
To briefly summarize (at least my understanding) of the concept behind this..during the 
1920's & 30's there were several folks (of whom Gann was one) who observed that there 
was a relationship between price moves and the square root of prices. Gann further fine- 
tuned this idea by looking at the problem of predicting price moves in geometric terms of 
circles, rectangles, triangles, etc. The square of 9 chart serves a couple of purposes along 
these lines. First, it is a square root calculator (which came in handy before the days of 
computers). It also, however, arranges these "squares" in various angles and geometric 
forms. 
ONE such geometric construct in the chart is a circle within a square. To illustrate, look 
at the chart and find the number 21 in the lower right hand corner of the second square.

--- PAGE 12 of 72 ---

Now take the square root of this and add 2 and square the result. The answer 
(approximately) is 43, which is located in the lower right hand corner of the THIRD 
square, 360 degrees OUT (or up) from 21. This is the circle idea (360 
degrees in a circle). Percentages of this circle are of course also located along the square. 
Gann (and others of that era) observed that price frequently moved in increments of the 
square roots of price. And that's what the square of nine chart is designed to represent. 
You can create your own (more accurate) chart by using a spreadsheet to take the square 
root of a pivot low/high and add or subtract the 
relevant factor (from .25 for a 45 degree move to 2 for a 360 degree move) and square the
result. 
The above explains WHY the poster used 2 for the cycle. A close examination of prices 
for ANY chart shows that there are other factors besides 2 which are also relevant. That, 
in a nutshell, is SOME of what the chart is all about. Gann, it turns out, was FULL of 
observations on price moves, some of which are truly startling. Take a look at Michael S 
Jenkins Chart Reading for Professional Traders (all of the techniques in the book came 
from Gann and those are only the beginning). 
In addition to Jenkins, other sources that I've found helpful are the egroups here. Just do a
search for Gann and examine the archived messages. You'll find many other ways to use 
the chart. Other than Jenkins (and a few others), I'd be suspicious of some of the books 
and software available until I was more acquainted with the subject. 
Gann tends to attract the weirdest of the weird (no offence) and it seems most have felt 
the need to write a book describing their interpretation of the mystical meanings behind 
Gann's theories. 
In general, keep in mind that most if not ALL of Gann's theories are solidly based on 
growth/decay models of trading markets. THAT's why the square roots, divisions of the 
range, etc work so well. NOT because Gann was divining some tunnel in the sky crap. Its
amusing but largely junk. IMHO, of course.
 Carl
One approach is to look at price movement through a division of the range. Gann mainly 
wrote about this from a highest to lowest range (from what I understand) but other ranges
work very well. Applying Gann's rules about the different price behaviours at these 
divisions can put these swings into a perspective that makes a great deal of sense.
To answer your question about accounting for major swings in price...I think you need to 
first understand HOW trading markets grow & decay & WHY Gann/Elliott analysis 
works at all. 
IMHO the reason that any of this works is that it is capturing a snapshot of the "golden 
spiral" which explains this movement. The reason to look a snapshot rather than the spiral
Now take the square root of this and add 2 and square the result. The answer 
(approximately) is 43, which is located in the lower right hand corner of the THIRD 
square, 360 degrees OUT (or up) from 21. This is the circle idea (360 
degrees in a circle). Percentages of this circle are of course also located along the square. 
Gann (and others of that era) observed that price frequently moved in increments of the 
square roots of price. And that's what the square of nine chart is designed to represent. 
You can create your own (more accurate) chart by using a spreadsheet to take the square 
root of a pivot low/high and add or subtract the 
relevant factor (from .25 for a 45 degree move to 2 for a 360 degree move) and square the 
result. 
The above explains WHY the poster used 2 for the cycle. A close examination of prices 
for ANY chart shows that there are other factors besides 2 which are also relevant. That, 
in a nutshell, is SOME of what the chart is all about. Gann, it turns out, was FULL of 
observations on price moves, some of which are truly startling. Take a look at Michael S 
Jenkins Chart Reading for Professional Traders (all of the techniques in the book came 
from Gann and those are only the beginning). 
In addition to Jenkins, other sources that I've found helpful are the egroups here. Just do a 
search for Gann and examine the archived messages. You'll find many other ways to use 
the chart. Other than Jenkins (and a few others), I'd be suspicious of some of the books 
and software available until I was more acquainted with the subject. 
Gann tends to attract the weirdest of the weird (no offence) and it seems most have felt 
the need to write a book describing their interpretation of the mystical meanings behind 
Gann's theories. 
In general, keep in mind that most if not ALL of Gann's theories are solidly based on 
growth/decay models of trading markets. THAT's why the square roots, divisions of the 
range, etc work so well. NOT because Gann was divining some tunnel in the sky crap. Its 
amusing but largely junk. IMHO, of course. 
Carl 
One approach is to look at price movement through a division of the range. Gann mainly 
wrote about this from a highest to lowest range (from what I understand) but other ranges 
work very well. Applying Gann's rules about the different price behaviours at these 
divisions can put these swings into a perspective that makes a great deal of sense. 
To answer your question about accounting for major swings in price... think you need to 
first understand HOW trading markets grow & decay & WHY Gann/Elliott analysis 
works at all. 
IMHO the reason that any of this works is that it is capturing a snapshot of the "golden 
spiral" which explains this movement. The reason to look a snapshot rather than the spiral

--- PAGE 13 of 72 ---

itself is that the spiral is subject to a great deal of "torque" from indigenous & exogenous 
factors and is ALWAYS twisting, turning & reversing direction. (So, analyst reports on 
the semiconductor sector, for instance, can send prices in a completely different direction 
& are an exogenous factor). However, the principle behind the golden spiral is that ALL 
price movement is related to previous price moves (that's the reason that moving 
averages, for instance, can sometimes be effective for future price moves.) This 
relationship is what square roots, divisions of the range, Gann angles, fib analysis, elliott 
waves, etc. is capturing.
Swings move in odd directions and mostly with a lack of seeming direction because they 
are accounting for the actions/reactions of a diverse group of traders, each with his/her 
own mindset. You can NEVER hope to understand where price is going specifically, but 
you CAN hope to understand where price has been and the future relationships that that 
might present (and, once again, that's where `these techniques come into play)
As for Gann's astronomical (not astrological) work, I have no question that it CAN work. 
But the REASON for its effectiveness, IMHO has nothing to do with astrology, 
mysticism, etc. Instead, EACH planet is on a patterned course through the universe. 
These patterns are rhythmical & consistent & have fixed relationships. They can be 
reduced, in other words, to mathematical formulas. Where these formulas HAPPEN to 
interact with the growth/decay "Golden Spiral" is where you can get action. There's a 
BIG difference between this, however, & claiming that "the influence of Saturn is 
causing traders and investors to buy IBM". The end result, of course, is the same. But its 
happening for an entirely different reason. Not understanding this causes folks to (with all
due respect to the Tunnel in the Air group here) invent all kinds of misleading crap. 
Put another way, IF the movement of the planets was totally random AND planet 
trajectories continued to interact with trading markets, THEN I'd believe in some 
astroLOGical connection. Such is not the case
Carl
Dear Carson,
Thanks for your kind answer to Dr. Narayan's question on converting to degrees. As a 
dedicated Square of 9 student, I understand the reason for converting Price and Time to 
degrees (to evaluate both these variables in the same unit of measurement). What I'm 
racking my brains on is the definitive meaning of "squaring" Price and Time. In other 
words, what condition(s) constitute a bona-fide squaring of Time and Price? Perhaps I 
can better explain myself via an example.
If we take the S&P 500 Cash Index (SPX)... on 3/22/01, the SPX made a Bottom at 
1081.19. Then 61 calendar days later on 5/22/01 it made a Top at 1315.97. Based on 
itself is that the spiral is subject to a great deal of "torque" from indigenous & exogenous 
factors and is ALWAYS twisting, turning & reversing direction. (So, analyst reports on 
the semiconductor sector, for instance, can send prices in a completely different direction 
& are an exogenous factor). However, the principle behind the golden spiral is that ALL 
price movement is related to previous price moves (that's the reason that moving 
averages, for instance, can sometimes be effective for future price moves.) This 
relationship is what square roots, divisions of the range, Gann angles, fib analysis, elliott 
waves, etc. is capturing. 
Swings move in odd directions and mostly with a lack of seeming direction because they 
are accounting for the actions/reactions of a diverse group of traders, each with his/her 
own mindset. You can NEVER hope to understand where price is going specifically, but 
you CAN hope to understand where price has been and the future relationships that that 
might present (and, once again, that's where ‘these techniques come into play) 
As for Gann's astronomical (not astrological) work, I have no question that it CAN work. 
But the REASON for its effectiveness, IMHO has nothing to do with astrology, 
mysticism, etc. Instead, EACH planet is on a patterned course through the universe. 
These patterns are rhythmical & consistent & have fixed relationships. They can be 
reduced, in other words, to mathematical formulas. Where these formulas HAPPEN to 
interact with the growth/decay "Golden Spiral" is where you can get action. There's a 
BIG difference between this, however, & claiming that "the influence of Saturn is 
causing traders and investors to buy IBM". The end result, of course, is the same. But its 
happening for an entirely different reason. Not understanding this causes folks to (with all 
due respect to the Tunnel in the Air group here) invent all kinds of misleading crap. 
Put another way, IF the movement of the planets was totally random AND planet 
trajectories continued to interact with trading markets, THEN I'd believe in some 
astroLOGical connection. Such is not the case 
Carl 
Dear Carson, 
Thanks for your kind answer to Dr. Narayan's question on converting to degrees. As a 
dedicated Square of 9 student, I understand the reason for converting Price and Time to 
degrees (to evaluate both these variables in the same unit of measurement). What I'm 
racking my brains on is the definitive meaning of "squaring" Price and Time. In other 
words, what condition(s) constitute a bona-fide squaring of Time and Price? Perhaps I 
can better explain myself via an example. 
If we take the S&P 500 Cash Index (SPX)... on 3/22/01, the SPX made a Bottom at 
1081.19. Then 61 calendar days later on 5/22/01 it made a Top at 1315.97. Based on

--- PAGE 14 of 72 ---

Gann's slogan of "When Price and Time are Squared, the Trend Changes", we can 
rationalise that some kind of squaring occurred on 5/22/01 (because the trend changed!). 
If I apply your degree conversion methodology to the above example I get the following:
Time in Degrees = 61cd X 180 = 10,980; Mod 360 = 30.50 Degrees
Price in Degrees = 1315.93 - 1081.19 = 234.74; then...
SQRT of 234.74 = 15.321; then 15.321 X 180 = 2757.78; then...
Mod 360 = 2757.78/360 = 7.6605; 7.6605 - 7.0 = 0.6605; then...
360 X 0.6605 = 237.78 Degrees
Now Time Degrees = 30.5 and Price Degrees = 237.78; What is the indication in these 
two results that Time and Price have indeed squared? (we know it has because the trend 
changed!) Again, what is the definitive indication that Price and Time have squared?
Greatly appreciate any additional insights,
Still toiling away...
Prakash 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/321
Members,
I've been applying these calculations to the bean market with some success and some 
head scratching. Once I found the time degree, if space or price was off on a hard aspect I
reversed engineered the price degree based on the number of 360's I was removing to 
arrive at the exact number that would square price with the time degree. But some ?'s 
started poping up. How much time and or price movement did I have from the last low or
high ... ect.? It was tough to tell from just the degree numbers.
So then I remembered what I learned from reading some of Granville Cooley's work and 
that is. If there is a relationship between two numbers and if that relationship is valid 
across all numbers, then it must be there in the smallest numbers.
Now before I go on to what I found. Have any of you ever wondered why the even 
squares didn't fall on an angle line on the traditional square of 9 chart. I myself just 
excepted the explanations I've read. But in the back of my mind I always wondered why 
it had to be that way. well if you start with 1 as the first number it just works that way. 
But with zero occupying the first block then both even and odd squares are 180 degrees 
apart. This is what I discovered when I worked with Carl's calculations on the smallest 
numbers. What I was looking for initially was how many days or points was 360 degrees.
Gann's slogan of "When Price and Time are Squared, the Trend Changes", we can 
rationalise that some kind of squaring occurred on 5/22/01 (because the trend changed!). 
If | apply your degree conversion methodology to the above example I get the following: 
Time in Degrees = 61cd X 180 = 10,980; Mod 360 = 30.50 Degrees 
Price in Degrees = 1315.93 - 1081.19 = 234.74; then... 
SQRT of 234.74 = 15.321; then 15.321 X 180 = 2757.78; then... 
Mod 360 = 2757.78/360 = 7.6605; 7.6605 - 7.0 = 0.6605; then... 
360 X 0.6605 = 237.78 Degrees 
Now Time Degrees = 30.5 and Price Degrees = 237.78; What is the indication in these 
two results that Time and Price have indeed squared? (we know it has because the trend 
changed!) Again, what is the definitive indication that Price and Time have squared? 
Greatly appreciate any additional insights, 
Still toiling away... 
Prakash 
https://groups. yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/321 
Members, 
I've been applying these calculations to the bean market with some success and some 
head scratching. Once I found the time degree, if space or price was off on a hard aspect I 
reversed engineered the price degree based on the number of 360's I was removing to 
arrive at the exact number that would square price with the time degree. But some ?'s 
started poping up. How much time and or price movement did I have from the last low or 
high ... ect.? It was tough to tell from just the degree numbers. 
So then I remembered what I learned from reading some of Granville Cooley's work and 
that is. If there is a relationship between two numbers and if that relationship is valid 
across all numbers, then it must be there in the smallest numbers. 
Now before I go on to what I found. Have any of you ever wondered why the even 
squares didn't fall on an angle line on the traditional square of 9 chart. I myself just 
excepted the explanations I've read. But in the back of my mind I always wondered why 
it had to be that way. well if you start with 1 as the first number it just works that way. 
But with zero occupying the first block then both even and odd squares are 180 degrees 
apart. This is what I discovered when I worked with Carl's calculations on the smallest 
numbers. What I was looking for initially was how many days or points was 360 degrees.

--- PAGE 15 of 72 ---

1 = 315*
2 = 29.55*
3 = 86.76*
4 = 135*
5 = 177.49*
6 = 215.90*
7 = 251.22*
8 = 284.11*
9 = 315*
As you can see 1 and 9 both odd sq's are at 315, 4 a even sq is now 
at 135 which is 180* away. But lets go on.
10 = 344.20*
11 = 371.99*
I stopped there, knowing my number I was looking for was between 10 and 11. so I 
reversed engineered the math. I took 360+225/180 left me with 3.25, resquared that 
number and got 10.5625. I then got out my square of 9 chart and found the number 10. I 
noticed 27 is one cycle away and thought then that well 27.5625 must be 720 degrees of 
movement. All one has to do is sqrt that number and you have your answer.
Anyway by applying what I now know I was able to easily find every turn in may beans 
and understand the squaring. At first I couldn't find the exact square on the lastest low 
until I worked with the contract low. It's relationship to the low is an exact square with 
Carl's calculation. Now as far as one's ability to project future 
turns with this method I believe you'll have to be intimate with that market. Know 
through back testing and lots of note taking to determine a markets movements in not 
only reactions but bull and bear runs.
Stuart
I don't claim to be expert in the use of the Sq of 9 by any means, but I too have run across
some of the difficulties you mention.  You say you picked a high and a low.  I don't think 
every high and low are related to each other by time/price, but swings are related to some
previous high/low by squaring.  I have found it useful to calculate price and time from 
several previous swing points - e.g. in an uptrend, calculate from major lows, retracement
lows, previous highs, etc. to find a relationship.  Which point creates the T/P square may 
have a lot to do with the overall structure of the trend - is this an intermediate wave or the
culmination of a major advance, etc.  Retracement rallies may eventually square out with 
previous highs within the larger trend, etc. 
 
I just sat down with a bond chart from 1995 last night and worked out some of the 
squaring in that major advance.  Most highs had a relationship with the major trend low, 
1=315* 
2 = 29.55* 
3 = 86.76* 
4 = 135* 
5 = 177.49* 
6 = 215.90* 
7 = 251.22* 
8 = 284.11* 
9 =315* 
As you can see | and 9 both odd sq's are at 315, 4 a even sq is now 
at 135 which is 180* away. But lets go on. 
10 = 344.20* 
11 =371.99* 
I stopped there, knowing my number I was looking for was between 10 and 11. so I 
reversed engineered the math. I took 360+225/180 left me with 3.25, resquared that 
number and got 10.5625. I then got out my square of 9 chart and found the number 10. I 
noticed 27 is one cycle away and thought then that well 27.5625 must be 720 degrees of 
movement. All one has to do is sqrt that number and you have your answer. 
Anyway by applying what I now know I was able to easily find every turn in may beans 
and understand the squaring. At first I couldn't find the exact square on the lastest low 
until I worked with the contract low. It's relationship to the low is an exact square with 
Carl's calculation. Now as far as one's ability to project future 
turns with this method I believe you'll have to be intimate with that market. Know 
through back testing and lots of note taking to determine a markets movements in not 
only reactions but bull and bear runs. 
Stuart 
I don't claim to be expert in the use of the Sq of 9 by any means, but I too have run across 
some of the difficulties you mention. You say you picked a high and a low. I don't think 
every high and low are related to each other by time/price, but swings are related to some 
previous high/low by squaring. I have found it useful to calculate price and time from 
several previous swing points - e.g. in an uptrend, calculate from major lows, retracement 
lows, previous highs, etc. to find a relationship. Which point creates the T/P square may 
have a lot to do with the overall structure of the trend - is this an intermediate wave or the 
culmination of a major advance, etc. Retracement rallies may eventually square out with 
previous highs within the larger trend, etc. 
I just sat down with a bond chart from 1995 last night and worked out some of the 
squaring in that major advance. Most highs had a relationship with the major trend low,

--- PAGE 16 of 72 ---

but some were also related to previous swing lows.  Retracements seemed to vary 
relationships with the previous swing, previous retracements, etc.  I found the final top in 
1996 to be related to the previous intermediate low, but not in any neat fashion with the 
big low of July 1995.  I have more work to do, but this opened up some new lines of 
inquiry for me in trying to figure out how to anticipate the length of moves, expected 
retracements, etc.
 
Another help in "finding the square" was Stuart's point about projecting price levels from 
the known Time angle.  I found that relationships that did not seem to be related at first 
glance could be seen in a better light when I calculated that the ideal square to the time 
angle was really only 2-3 ticks away from the actual price move.  The math can make it 
look like a bigger miss than it actually is (Gann's "lost motion").
 
Hope this helps in some way.  I would love to hear what others have found in their travels
with the Sq9.
 
Greg Blus
thanks Stuart
 
What I have done so far for bonds is use number of ticks travelled as the price move to 
sqrt.  Being fluent in bond-ese, I use the decimal equivalent of each price (e.g. 111-17 = 
111.531, 98-1 = 98.031) to figure the number of points in decimal and multiply by 32 (# 
ticks in a point) to get total ticks.  Normal people just have to remember that the contracts
trade in 32nds when calculating the difference in prices.
 
Example: 104-11 to 102-17 is 58 ticks.  104.344 - 102.531 = 1.813 x 32 = 58.016 (diff 
due to rounding to 3 decimals).  Or, 11 ticks down to 104, 32 ticks down to 103, 15 ticks 
(32 - 17) down to 102-17.  11+32+15 = 58.
 
For bigger moves, I plan to examine number of points travelled and whether these square 
with weekly or monthly time counts.  I'll post results if I find anything of interest.
 
Greg
OK how about this? 10411-10517= 58tics. Square root of 58 = 7.615. 
Add 1 and resquare 8.615 = 74.2. 9411-10200 today's low was 75 tics.
Square root of 75 = 8.66 x180=1558.84-225=1333.84MOD=253.84.
Number of days from 1/16(9411high)-1/23(10200low)=7. 
Square root of 7 = 2.64 x 180=476.2-225=251.
Is that close enough?
but some were also related to previous swing lows. Retracements seemed to vary 
relationships with the previous swing, previous retracements, etc. I found the final top in 
1996 to be related to the previous intermediate low, but not in any neat fashion with the 
big low of July 1995. I have more work to do, but this opened up some new lines of 
inquiry for me in trying to figure out how to anticipate the length of moves, expected 
retracements, etc. 
Another help in "finding the square" was Stuart's point about projecting price levels from 
the known Time angle. I found that relationships that did not seem to be related at first 
glance could be seen in a better light when I calculated that the ideal square to the time 
angle was really only 2-3 ticks away from the actual price move. The math can make it 
look like a bigger miss than it actually is (Gann's "lost motion"). 
Hope this helps in some way. I would love to hear what others have found in their travels 
with the Sq9. 
Greg Blus 
thanks Stuart 
What I have done so far for bonds is use number of ticks travelled as the price move to 
sqrt. Being fluent in bond-ese, I use the decimal equivalent of each price (e.g. 111-17 = 
111.531, 98-1 = 98.031) to figure the number of points in decimal and multiply by 32 (# 
ticks in a point) to get total ticks. Normal people just have to remember that the contracts 
trade in 32nds when calculating the difference in prices. 
Example: 104-11 to 102-17 is 58 ticks. 104.344 - 102.531 = 1.813 x 32 = 58.016 (diff 
due to rounding to 3 decimals). Or, 11 ticks down to 104, 32 ticks down to 103, 15 ticks 
(32 - 17) down to 102-17. 114+32+15 =58. 
For bigger moves, I plan to examine number of points travelled and whether these square 
with weekly or monthly time counts. I'll post results if I find anything of interest. 
Greg 
OK how about this? 10411-10517= S58tics. Square root of 58 = 7.615. 
Add 1 and resquare 8.615 = 74.2. 9411-10200 today's low was 75 tics. 
Square root of 75 = 8.66 x180=1558.84-225=1333.84MOD=253.84. 
Number of days from 1/16(941 | high)-1/23(10200low)=7. 
Square root of 
7 = 2.64 x 180=476.2-225=251. 
Is that close enough?

--- PAGE 17 of 72 ---

I don't think today's low is supposed to hold though. I was thinking of a low this 
weekend.
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/329
While doing research on W. D. Gann in the Boston libraries recently, I 
came across a copy of Karl Anderson's "Astrology of the Old Testament 
or the Lost Word Regained" (1892) in Widener Library at Harvard. It 
was given to the Harvard library by the author and dedicated to "the 
students."
The title interested me immediately, because it embraced: a) Gann's 
now-noted enthusiasm for astrology; b) Gann's much-proclaimed regard 
for the Bible as a sourcebook; and c) Gann's interest in the "lost word" 
of freemasonry, treated in his own last book, "The Magic Word."
What struck me in particular while examining Anderson's work was the 
attached illustration. Indeed, I sat transfixed for many minutes, 
looking meditatively at this picture in the silence of the reading room.
I note that Anderson has written on the left-hand side, at the 270 degree 
point, "Mystery of the Pyramid," and we know that Gann was much 
taken by studies of the Great Pyramid of Giza. On the bottom or 0 
degree point, Anderson has written, "Mystery of 5 Pointed Star," or the 
pentagram, which is alluded to among other things the symbol of the 
Lone Star State (p. 1 of "The Tunnel Thru the Air").
Some Gann Squares of Nine have concentric circles on them such as 
Anderson has drawn on his own illustration. There are also squares and 
triangles in Anderson's picture as well. These facts are particularly 
interesting in light of comments by Daniel Ferrera concerning the 
Square of Nine:
"In Ganns Master Course for Stocks he said 'Within the circle forms the 
square, there is an inner circle and an inner square, as well as an outer 
square and an outer circle which prove the Fourth Dimension in working
out price movements.' So far, we have covered the inner circle (The 
Earths Orbit around the Sun) and the inner square (Historic high & low 
coordinates on the square itself). The outer circle includes all of the 
planets and is the Zodiac starting at the left side of the square also on 
March 21st. Moving from this point clockwise in 30 degree sections of 
I don't think today's low is supposed to hold though. I was thinking of a low this 
weekend. 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/329 
While doing research on W. D. Gann in the Boston libraries recently, I 
came across a copy of Karl Anderson's "Astrology of the Old Testament 
or the Lost Word Regained" (1892) in Widener Library at Harvard. It 
was given to the Harvard library by the author and dedicated to "the 
students." 
The title interested me immediately, because it embraced: a) Gann's 
now-noted enthusiasm for astrology; b) Gann's much-proclaimed regard 
for the Bible as a sourcebook; and c) Gann's interest in the "lost word" 
of freemasonry, treated in his own last book, "The Magic Word." 
What struck me in particular while examining Anderson's work was the 
attached illustration. Indeed, I sat transfixed for many minutes, 
looking meditatively at this picture in the silence of the reading room. 
I note that Anderson has written on the left-hand side, at the 270 degree 
point, "Mystery of the Pyramid," and we know that Gann was much 
taken by studies of the Great Pyramid of Giza. On the bottom or 0 
degree point, Anderson has written, "Mystery of 5 Pointed Star," or the 
pentagram, which is alluded to among other things the symbol of the 
Lone Star State (p. 1 of "The Tunnel Thru the Air"). 
Some Gann Squares of Nine have concentric circles on them such as 
Anderson has drawn on his own illustration. There are also squares and 
triangles in Anderson's picture as well. These facts are particularly 
interesting in light of comments by Daniel Ferrera concerning the 
Square of Nine: 
"In Ganns Master Course for Stocks he said 'Within the circle forms the 
square, there is an inner circle and an inner square, as well as an outer 
square and an outer circle which prove the Fourth Dimension in working 
out price movements.' So far, we have covered the inner circle (The 
Earths Orbit around the Sun) and the inner square (Historic high & low 
coordinates on the square itself). The outer circle includes all of the 
planets and is the Zodiac starting at the left side of the square also on 
March 21st. Moving from this point clockwise in 30 degree sections of

--- PAGE 18 of 72 ---

the circle will place all 12 zodiac symbols around the wheel. This 
completes the outer circle and allows the analyst to examine planetary 
longitude relationships to price coordinates on the Square of 9, which is 
now an outer square. In this way, we can convert planetary positions to 
prices relating to degrees of a circle (Zodiac longitude) and also to 
coordinates on the Square of 9. We can also examine hard aspects to 
both zodiac longitude and Square of 9 coordinates."
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/gannwheel.htm
It is to say the least a very interesting drawing. To see a description of 
the Anderson book, and a few pages from it, including my attachment, 
go to:
http://www.kessinger-publishing.com
and type in Anderson Karl in the search box.
Any observations are welcome.
 
Super Roman
Super,
You might do your self a big favor and get a copy of Robert Lawlor's    Sacred 
Geometry,  Philosopy  and Practice.
I think this might go a long way to clearing up some of the "Mystery"
I never took DF's course, but check out with a paper and compass and ruler.
concentric square's and circles.... that is where .707 or the sacred cut comes from.
 
Good Reading.
 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/messages/105
I don't use triangle numbers. As I tell people all the time, too many tools spoil the broth. I
only use the square of 9.
With this in mind I note that the GE low of 28.50 on September 21 occurred 0.10 x 
17.795 squared dollars down from the 60.75 high on August 28,2000. Also note that 
September 21 was 19.975 squared days from the high. So time and price were conjunct 
on the 135 degree angle at the September 21 low. Hmmm....
Carl
In my last post I should have said that the 28.50 low in GE on September 21 was 17.958 
squared x 0.10 dollars down from the 60.75 
the circle will place all 12 zodiac symbols around the wheel. This 
completes the outer circle and allows the analyst to examine planetary 
longitude relationships to price coordinates on the Square of 9, which is 
now an outer square. In this way, we can convert planetary positions to 
prices relating to degrees of a circle (Zodiac longitude) and also to 
coordinates on the Square of 9. We can also examine hard aspects to 
both zodiac longitude and Square of 9 coordinates." 
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/gannwheel.htm 
It is to say the least a very interesting drawing. To see a description of 
the Anderson book, and a few pages from it, including my attachment, 
go to: 
http://www.kessinger-publishing.com 
and type in Anderson Karl in the search box. 
Any observations are welcome. 
Super Roman 
Super, 
You might do your self a big favor and get a copy of Robert Lawlor's Sacred 
Geometry, Philosopy and Practice. 
I think this might go a long way to clearing up some of the "Mystery" 
I never took DF's course, but check out with a paper and compass and ruler. 
concentric square's and circles.... that is where .707 or the sacred cut comes from. 
Good Reading. 
https://groups. yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/messages/105 
I don't use triangle numbers. As I tell people all the time, too many tools spoil the broth. I 
only use the square of 9. 
With this in mind I note that the GE low of 28.50 on September 21 occurred 0.10 x 
17.795 squared dollars down from the 60.75 high on August 28,2000. Also note that 
September 21 was 19.975 squared days from the high. So time and price were conjunct 
on the 135 degree angle at the September 21 low. Hmmm.... 
Carl 
In my last post I should have said that the 28.50 low in GE on September 21 was 17.958 
squared x 0.10 dollars down from the 60.75

--- PAGE 19 of 72 ---

high (not 17.795 !)
Carl
Triangular numbers are literally triangles.
 
.
1
 
 .
. .
3
   .
 .   .
.  .  .
6
    .
  .   .
 .  .  .
.  .  .  .
10
 
Consider that the progression of lighting of the candles of a Menorah over time results in 
the same figure as the image presented by a Christmas tree, and that both of these are the 
essence of the Pythagorean Tetractys.
 
The genesis of the series in Pythagorean style is done by adding the numbers. 1 + 2 = 3. 3
+ 3 = 6. 6 + 4 = 10. 10 + 5 = 15, etc. One of the examples for which you asked for 
explanation was:
 
561 is the triangle of 33
 
If you add 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc. and keep a running total as explained above, when you reach 
the 33rd iteration (and have just added 33) your total will be 561.
 
Find the triangle of 36 and compare to the weights of gold which came in to Solomon in 
one year. 1 Kings 10:14
Knowing that 561 is the triangle of 33, we have a shortcut in that we only have 3 more 
numbers to add.
high (not 17.795 !) 
Carl 
Triangular numbers are literally triangles. 
10 
Consider that the progression of lighting of the candles of a Menorah over time results in 
the same figure as the image presented by a Christmas tree, and that both of these are the 
essence of the Pythagorean Tetractys. 
The genesis of the series in Pythagorean style is done by adding the numbers. | + 2 = 3. 3 
+3=6.6+4=10. 10+5=15, etc. One of the examples for which you asked for 
explanation was: 
561 is the triangle of 33 
If you add 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc. and keep a running total as explained above, when you reach 
the 33rd iteration (and have just added 33) your total will be 561. 
Find the triangle of 36 and compare to the weights of gold which came in to Solomon in 
one year. | Kings 10:14 
Knowing that 561 is the triangle of 33, we have a shortcut in that we only have 3 more 
numbers to add.

--- PAGE 20 of 72 ---

Interestingly, just as when we divide a geometrical square with a diagonal we get two 
triangles, when we add two triangular numbers we get a square. For example, 6 + 10 = 
16, which is the square of 4.
 
10 is a demonstration of the extension of the One as we see that 1 + 3 + 6 = 10.
 
These two examples are most compelling as we see that by understanding this, the 
squares so commonly focused on can be seen in a different light.
 
Gann supposedly went to Egypt to study Fibonnaci numbers at the foot of a pyramid with
a square base.
 
36 is one of the special cases, a number that is both triangular and square.
36 is the square of the Sun, obviously round, and to the Egyptians, a triangle at the same 
time.
 
Let's examine the triangular numbers that lead up to 36.
1 3 6 10 15 21 28 36
 
And the squares
1 4 9 25 36
 
Only 15 and 21 add up to 36, triangles within the square.
 
There are those who dislike esotericism because they only see their belief about what it 
is. For them, I offer a suggestion of a practical example.
 
Take a look at the attached chart of GE and the marked triangular numbers.  Price as of 
now 35.95.
 
Numbers aspect in the same way as do planets. How many planets? How many numbers?
It could be that a belief in a difference between numbers and astrology is but a veil 
concealing a greater understanding.
 
That wch I have said of ye apocalypse of ye golden mean and ye one male and female 
god is hereby accomplished and ended. : )
 
---------------------------------------------------------
Darrin
"561 is the triangle of 33"
 
Interestingly, just as when we divide a geometrical square with a diagonal we get two 
triangles, when we add two triangular numbers we get a square. For example, 6 + 10 = 
16, which is the square of 4. 
10 is a demonstration of the extension of the One as we see that 1 
+3 + 6= 10. 
These two examples are most compelling as we see that by understanding this, the 
squares so commonly focused on can be seen in a different light. 
Gann supposedly went to Egypt to study Fibonnaci numbers at the foot of a pyramid with 
a square base. 
36 is one of the special cases, a number that is both triangular and square. 
36 is the square of the Sun, obviously round, and to the Egyptians, a triangle at the same 
time. 
Let's examine the triangular numbers that lead up to 36. 
1361015 
21 28 36 
And the squares 
149 25 36 
Only 15 and 21 add up to 36, triangles within the square. 
There are those who dislike esotericism because they only see their belief about what it 
is. For them, I offer a suggestion of a practical example. 
Take a look at the attached chart of GE and the marked triangular numbers. Price as of 
now 35.95. 
Numbers aspect in the same way as do planets. How many planets? How many numbers? 
It could be that a belief in a difference between numbers and astrology is but a veil 
concealing a greater understanding. 
That wch I have said of ye apocalypse of ye golden mean and ye one male and female 
god is hereby accomplished and ended. : ) 
"S61 is the triangle of 33"

--- PAGE 21 of 72 ---

561 is the SUMMATION of all numbers from 1 to 33.  The formula is n/2 x (n+1)
 
n=33, so n/2 = 33/2 = 16.5
n+1 = 33+1 = 34
multiply these together 16.5 x 34 = 561.
 
This summation theory was "discovered" by a 5th grader!!!
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/119
General ways to use Square of Nine!
 
1. THIS IS THE BEST ONE I HAVE FOUND - TIME:
 
- Take Two Dates say the birth day of yours and your wife.
- Get the difference of dates.  Look it up on the Square of Nine
- If you are compatible the dates should fall on either the Cardinal Cross
  line (like mine and my wife's) or the Fixed Cross
 
- You apply the same principles to Trend Change Dates in the markets
both past and future.
 
 
2. PLANETS - THIS IS THE WORST ONE I HAVE FOUND
   (by the way this was the most expensive thing I have paid for in Gann)
- Take the Geocentric location of the Planets
- Lay those positions down on the Square of Nine
- Use the Angles or Rays to determine market Price and Time resistance
- If you want to really make a mess of the page you can use the Mean of the 5 Visible 
Planets positions.  Or the 6 planets closest to the sun or the 8 planets etc.
- Waste of Time but you can charge heaps for it!
 
3. MOST OBVIOUS ONE
 
Use it for price and time moves relatively and see if Changes Occur on Angles of 180 90 
270 etc 120 etc degrees from other Price and Time Trend Change Points.
 
Try using that for your trading and you will come up with lots of possibilities for 
confusion!
 
Regards
David Hunt
www.adest.com.au
561 is the SUMMATION of all numbers from | to 33. The formula is n/2 x (n+1) 
n=33, so n/2 = 33/2 = 16.5 
n+] = 33+1 = 34 
multiply these together 16.5 x 34 = 561. 
This summation theory was "discovered" by a 5th grader!!! 
https://groups. yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/119 
General ways to use Square of Nine! 
1. THIS IS THE BEST ONE I HAVE FOUND - TIME: 
- Take Two Dates say the birth day of yours and your wife. 
- Get the difference of dates. Look it up on the Square of Nine 
- If you are compatible the dates should fall on either the Cardinal Cross 
line (like mine and my wife's) or the Fixed Cross 
- You apply the same principles to Trend Change Dates in the markets 
both past and future. 
2. PLANETS - THIS IS THE WORST ONE I HAVE FOUND 
(by the way this was the most expensive thing I have paid for in Gann) 
- Take the Geocentric location of the Planets 
- Lay those positions down on the Square of Nine 
- Use the Angles or Rays to determine market Price and Time resistance 
- If you want to really make a mess of the page you can use the Mean of the 5 Visible 
Planets positions. Or the 6 planets closest to the sun or the 8 planets etc. 
- Waste of Time but you can charge heaps for it! 
3. MOST OBVIOUS ONE 
Use it for price and time moves relatively and see if Changes Occur on Angles of 180 90 
270 etc 120 etc degrees from other Price and Time Trend Change Points. 
Try using that for your trading and you will come up with lots of possibilities for 
confusion! 
Regards 
David Hunt 
www.adest.com.au

--- PAGE 22 of 72 ---

I don't know of anyone who agrees with me, but it is my eccentric opinion that the square
of 9 is the key to the markets.
What's wrong with the examples in Sq of 9 posts # 105 and 106 and in Gannsghost posts 
# 7459, 7460 and 7462?
Carl
As a general principle If you start any date calcs using the natural year you start at 21 
March Equinox (Ingress) for northern hemisphere 21 Sep Southern Hemisphere. You can
also use Solar Degrees in place of Calendar Days of course.
 
Regards
David Hunt
You are right. The Square of 9 is a square root calculator. It converts numbers to angles 
in a way that is easy to do with a hand calculator (the method I use). See my post # 5463 
on Gannsghost. 
I don't know how people can get away selling the square of 9 for hundreds of dollars 
except by taking advantage of other people's ignorance (mathematical and otherwise).
I do believe that the Square of 9 holds the key to the markets and can be used to trade 
successfully all by itself. I have a friend who claims that the uncanny ability of the square
of 9 to identify trend changes is proof that the markets are manipulated. He thinks that a 
financial conspiracy uses the square of 9 as a mathematical signalling tool to coordinate 
the trades of its members. (I do not happen to share this belief.)
I have never seen anything in print (including Gann's commodity course and my own 
booklets published 20 years ago, etc.) which explains the deeper significance of the 
square of 9 and I doubt that I ever will.
Carl
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/172
Gann once wrote that every high and low is mathematically related to previous highs and 
lows. I believe that this is the case. However, there are many highs and lows to choose 
from, to say nothing of the numerous possible mathematical relationships which might 
exist among them. 
I don't know of anyone who agrees with me, but it is my eccentric opinion that the square 
of 9 is the key to the markets. 
What's wrong with the examples in Sq of 9 posts # 105 and 106 and in Gannsghost posts 
# 7459, 7460 and 7462? 
Carl 
As a general principle If you start any date calcs using the natural year you start at 21 
March Equinox (Ingress) for northern hemisphere 21 Sep Southern Hemisphere. You can 
also use Solar Degrees in place of Calendar Days of course. 
Regards 
David Hunt 
You are right. The Square of 9 is a square root calculator. It converts numbers to angles 
in a way that is easy to do with a hand calculator (the method I use). See my post # 5463 
on Gannsghost. 
I don't know how people can get away selling the square of 9 for hundreds of dollars 
except by taking advantage of other people's ignorance (mathematical and otherwise). 
I do believe that the Square of 9 holds the key to the markets and can be used to trade 
successfully all by itself. I have a friend who claims that the uncanny ability of the square 
of 9 to identify trend changes is proof that the markets are manipulated. He thinks that a 
financial conspiracy uses the square of 9 as a mathematical signalling tool to coordinate 
the trades of its members. (I do not happen to share this belief.) 
I have never seen anything in print (including Gann's commodity course and my own 
booklets published 20 years ago, etc.) which explains the deeper significance of the 
square of 9 and I doubt that I ever will. 
Carl 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/172 
Gann once wrote that every high and low is mathematically related to previous highs and 
lows. I believe that this is the case. However, there are many highs and lows to choose 
from, to say nothing of the numerous possible mathematical relationships which might 
exist among them.

--- PAGE 23 of 72 ---

When doing research along these lines I have found that the best guideline to follow is to 
keep things as simple as possible. Someone once told me that if a market technique is to 
work it must be simple, because the truth about the market is basically simple. Also, I 
have found it useful to imagine that the market is manipulated via a mathematical 
signalling tool which coordinates the trades of "those in the know". Any such 
mathematical signalling has to be simple and based on obvious price/time points. For 
example, the S&P projections I make now are based in part on the 9/21 low at 939.
As I have said many times on this list and on Gannsghost, I don't believe that pure time 
counts starting from some extreme and projecting some future trend change date are of 
much use. Almost all the techniques I described in the two booklets I wrote 20 years ago 
were of this type, and I don't use any of these today. Instead I have found a way to square 
price with time using the square of 9. This is the only tool you need to trade any market.
Carl
In my own work with the square of 9 I don't use any tables, wheels or charts which 
purport to display the square of 9. In fact, the only reason I even use the term "the square 
of 9" is to be able to communicate with other people by using terminology they 
understand.
The only "square of 9" I use is my TI-30 hand calculator and especially its square and 
square root functions.
I think the dates one finds displayed around the various "square of 9" wheels sold to the 
public are interesting but irrelevant to calculating support and resistance.
As to which way the numbers spiral around the chart, I think that they should increase as 
one moves from 0 to 45 to 90 degrees etc. because this is the way that corresponds to the 
calculations of square roots.
The only examples I can offer are those which I have posted on Gannsghost and 
Gannsquareofnine during the past three months.
Carl
thanks for these very interesting messages on gann's square of nine.
if you were to use the square of nine for the futures of the principal indices in the market 
(the dow, the nasdaq, and the s&p 500) -- and i'm thinking of the e-minis here -- what 
value would you use to start with in the square of nine? what would be the right 
"increment" (i'm thinking here of gann's passion for 1x1 charts, where one unit of time = 
one unit of price)?
When doing research along these lines I have found that the best guideline to follow is to 
keep things as simple as possible. Someone once told me that if a market technique is to 
work it must be simple, because the truth about the market is basically simple. Also, I 
have found it useful to imagine that the market is manipulated via a mathematical 
signalling tool which coordinates the trades of "those in the know". Any such 
mathematical signalling has to be simple and based on obvious price/time points. For 
example, the S&P projections I make now are based in part on the 9/21 low at 939. 
As I have said many times on this list and on Gannsghost, I don't believe that pure time 
counts starting from some extreme and projecting some future trend change date are of 
much use. Almost all the techniques I described in the two booklets I wrote 20 years ago 
were of this type, and I don't use any of these today. Instead I have found a way to square 
price with time using the square of 9. This is the only tool you need to trade any market. 
Carl 
In my own work with the square of 9 I don't use any tables, wheels or charts which 
purport to display the square of 9. In fact, the only reason I even use the term "the square 
of 9" is to be able to communicate with other people by using terminology they 
understand. 
The only "square of 9" I use is my TI-30 hand calculator and especially its square and 
square root functions. 
I think the dates one finds displayed around the various "square of 9" wheels sold to the 
public are interesting but irrelevant to calculating support and resistance. 
As to which way the numbers spiral around the chart, I think that they should increase as 
one moves from 0 to 45 to 90 degrees etc. because this is the way that corresponds to the 
calculations of square roots. 
The only examples I can offer are those which I have posted on Gannsghost and 
Gannsquareofnine during the past three months. 
Carl 
thanks for these very interesting messages on gann's square of nine. 
if you were to use the square of nine for the futures of the principal indices in the market 
(the dow, the nasdaq, and the s&p 500) -- and i'm thinking of the e-minis here -- what 
value would you use to start with in the square of nine? what would be the right 
"increment" (i'm thinking here of gann's passion for 1x1 charts, where one unit of time = 
one unit of price)?

--- PAGE 24 of 72 ---

best regards, romeman
I do not think that there is a single "correct" answer to the question of just what price 
increment should correspond to one unit in the square of 9.
As a general rule I choose increments that are powers of 10 (e.g. .01. .10, 1.0, 10, or 100 
cents, dollar, points or whatever the basic unit of quotation is).
The increment you choose will depend on two things. First, what is your trading time 
frame? Smaller increments are useful for analysing smaller trends, bigger increments for 
bigger trends. Second, how volatile is the market? I think that when the S&P's were 
trading in the low hundreds you would want to use increments which were smaller than 
the ones you use now when they are trading above 1000.
There is no magic, right answer to this question. It all depends on what you are trying to 
accomplish. My own choice of increments is not something I care to discuss because I 
don't wish to make it easy for others to duplicate my analysis.
Carl
Lee & Carl: 
Lee, a sq9 is a set of numbers starting from one and spiralling out till infinity.  A Gann 
Wheel is the same set of numbers but with a circle of dates around the sq9.  These dates 
can be used to compare time on the GW with prices in the sq9. 
There are many possibilities for Gann Wheels and sq9.  First the numbers in a spiral can 
progress in either a clockwise manner or counterclockwise from the center.  Next the 
dates around the GW can also go clockwise or counterclockwise but in addition the 
starting points for the dates can start in various places.  One starts from March 21, 
another from Sep 21 and a third from June 7th. 
Carl, you stated: "The only "square of 9" I use is my TI-30 hand calculator and 
especially its square and square root functions."  I also use this technique but there has 
always been a problem.  I cannot tell when time and price are squared because I never 
know what number (factor) to use.  I end up with a series of times and prices after the fact
and try to verify that the last high or low was a turning point by comparing different 
times with the prices. 
If I use factors that are too small, I can verify any price with any time.  If the factors are 
too large, nothing can be verified.  There is no way to know exactly what factor to use in 
advance.  This has always been an insurmountable problem which is why I turned to a 
best regards, romeman 
I do not think that there is a single "correct" answer to the question of just what price 
increment should correspond to one unit in the square of 9. 
As a general rule I choose increments that are powers of 10 (e.g. .01. .10, 1.0, 10, or 100 
cents, dollar, points or whatever the basic unit of quotation is). 
The increment you choose will depend on two things. First, what 1s your trading time 
frame? Smaller increments are useful for analysing smaller trends, bigger increments for 
bigger trends. Second, how volatile is the market? I think that when the S&P's were 
trading in the low hundreds you would want to use increments which were smaller than 
the ones you use now when they are trading above 1000. 
There is no magic, right answer to this question. It all depends on what you are trying to 
accomplish. My own choice of increments is not something I care to discuss because I 
don't wish to make it easy for others to duplicate my analysis. 
Carl 
Lee & Carl: 
Lee, a sq9 is a set of numbers starting from one and spiralling out till infinity. A Gann 
Wheel is the same set of numbers but with a circle of dates around the sq9. These dates 
can be used to compare time on the GW with prices in the sq9. 
There are many possibilities for Gann Wheels and sq9. First the numbers in a spiral can 
progress in either a clockwise manner or counterclockwise from the center. Next the 
dates around the GW can also go clockwise or counterclockwise but in addition the 
starting points for the dates can start in various places. One starts from March 21, 
another from Sep 21 and a third from June 7th. 
Carl, you stated: "The only "square of 9" Iuse is my TI-30 hand calculator and 
especially its square and square root functions." I also use this technique but there has 
always been a problem. I cannot tell when time and price are squared because I never 
know what number (factor) to use. I end up with a series of times and prices after the fact 
and try to verify that the last high or low was a turning point by comparing different 
times with the prices. 
If I use factors that are too small, I can verify any price with any time. If the factors are 
too large, nothing can be verified. There is no way to know exactly what factor to use in 
advance. This has always been an insurmountable problem which is why I turned to a

--- PAGE 25 of 72 ---

GW to hopefully determine another way to identify time or price.  At this point I do not 
see any way out of this dilemma. 
Lynn
The basic principle underlying market movements is that they tend to occur in muliples 
of 90 degrees. In the square of 9 this translates into adding or subtracting multiples of 0.5 
to or from the square root of the starting point price.
Of course there are many multiples of .5 to choose from (to say nothing of many possible 
starting points). This is why it is necessary to consider the time element by squaring price
with time. 
I believe that it is possible to develop a profitable trading method using only price and the
square of 9. This is the route I took to "enlightenment". But to completely understand the 
market and to be able to distinguish temporary halts from the end of the trend itself one 
must learn to incorporate the time element as well.
Carl
In every Gann wheel I have ever seen the dates displayed around the circumference of the
wheel are of no real use in calculating support and resistance.
I just don't see how anyone can get away with selling such a thing for more than the cost 
of materials.
I think it is very important to keep in mind the following basic fact.
The people who sell courses and books on Gann techniques most certainly do not know 
the "secret of the market" (if there is such a thing- I for one do think there is). If they did 
know of such a secret they certainly wouldn't reveal it to the public for a few hundred or 
for a few thousand dollars! 
Instead the seminar givers and course sellers know some things that work some of the 
time, but when it comes to applying them to real time trading they always need to use 
some form of standard technical analysis to assist the Gann techniques they know.
I think you have to approach this whole subject with that in mind. The materials, books, 
seminars are just a starting point (a good one) for your search for the truth. By its very 
nature the truth about how the markets work can never be given to you. You must 
discover on your own if you find it at all. If you discover it the truth will remain safe with
you because you will have no reason to sell it to anybody. You will have worked too hard
for too many years to sell it for a few hundred or a few thousand dollars in a seminar or a 
GW to hopefully determine another way to identify time or price. At this point I do not 
see any way out of this dilemma. 
Lynn 
The basic principle underlying market movements is that they tend to occur in muliples 
of 90 degrees. In the square of 9 this translates into adding or subtracting multiples of 0.5 
to or from the square root of the starting point price. 
Of course there are many multiples of .5 to choose from (to say nothing of many possible 
starting points). This is why it is necessary to consider the time element by squaring price 
with time. 
I believe that it is possible to develop a profitable trading method using only price and the 
square of 9. This is the route I took to "enlightenment". But to completely understand the 
market and to be able to distinguish temporary halts from the end of the trend itself one 
must learn to incorporate the time element as well. 
Carl 
In every Gann wheel I have ever seen the dates displayed around the circumference of the 
wheel are of no real use in calculating support and resistance. 
I just don't see how anyone can get away with selling such a thing for more than the cost 
of materials. 
I think it is very important to keep in mind the following basic fact. 
The people who sell courses and books on Gann techniques most certainly do not know 
the "secret of the market" (if there is such a thing- I for one do think there is). If they did 
know of such a secret they certainly wouldn't reveal it to the public for a few hundred or 
for a few thousand dollars! 
Instead the seminar givers and course sellers know some things that work some of the 
time, but when it comes to applying them to real time trading they always need to use 
some form of standard technical analysis to assist the Gann techniques they know. 
I think you have to approach this whole subject with that in mind. The materials, books, 
seminars are just a starting point (a good one) for your search for the truth. By its very 
nature the truth about how the markets work can never be given to you. You must 
discover on your own if you find it at all. If you discover it the truth will remain safe with 
you because you will have no reason to sell it to anybody. You will have worked too hard 
for too many years to sell it for a few hundred or a few thousand dollars in a seminar or a

--- PAGE 26 of 72 ---

book or course. You will instead use what you have learned to make your living from 
trading the markets.
Indeed, to sell what you know to somebody would run the real risk of destroying its 
value, for markets can only accommodate a small minority of successful traders.
I might add parenthetically that I don't believe that Gann himself knew the truth about 
how markets work. He knew only a small part of the whole story, and that part worked 
for him only some of the time (for example, in 1909).Therefore you won't learn what you 
really need to know from Gann's courses, books or those written by people who are trying
to capitalise on Gann's legacy.
Carl
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/185
topos8
I measure time using the calendar time which elapses between two dates. As I have often 
said on this list, I don't think planetary movements are of much use for calculating 
support and resistance and especially not in conjunction with the square of 9.
Time is in some sense "coarser" than price. For example, I have never had any success 
measuring time in minutes or hours as one might be tempted to do for day trading 
purposes. This is consonant with my basic model of the market which is that it behaves as
if it were manipulated by people who share a similar mathematical approach to markets 
and thereby coordinate their trades. This would be too hard to do if time had to be 
measured in minutes or hours.
Intraday movements certainly are controlled by price-square-time calculations. However, 
in my own work I also use pure price calculations to identify intraday turning points (for 
the purpose of fading reactions against the bigger trend). So I guess I am saying that for 
day-trading purposes you probably can rely only on price calculations using the square of
9, but to determine the direction of the bigger trend time must be incorporated into the 
analysis.
Carl
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/188
Hello Carl,
book or course. You will instead use what you have learned to make your living from 
trading the markets. 
Indeed, to sell what you know to somebody would run the real risk of destroying its 
value, for markets can only accommodate a small minority of successful traders. 
I might add parenthetically that I don't believe that Gann himself knew the truth about 
how markets work. He knew only a small part of the whole story, and that part worked 
for him only some of the time (for example, in 1909).Therefore you won't learn what you 
really need to know from Gann's courses, books or those written by people who are trying 
to capitalise on Gann's legacy. 
Carl 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/185 
topos8 
I measure time using the calendar time which elapses between two dates. As I have often 
said on this list, I don't think planetary movements are of much use for calculating 
support and resistance and especially not in conjunction with the square of 9. 
Time is in some sense "coarser" than price. For example, I have never had any success 
measuring time in minutes or hours as one might be tempted to do for day trading 
purposes. This is consonant with my basic model of the market which is that it behaves as 
if it were manipulated by people who share a similar mathematical approach to markets 
and thereby coordinate their trades. This would be too hard to do if time had to be 
measured in minutes or hours. 
Intraday movements certainly are controlled by price-square-time calculations. However, 
in my own work I also use pure price calculations to identify intraday turning points (for 
the purpose of fading reactions against the bigger trend). So I guess I am saying that for 
day-trading purposes you probably can rely only on price calculations using the square of 
9, but to determine the direction of the bigger trend time must be incorporated into the 
analysis. 
Carl 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/topics/188 
Hello Carl,

--- PAGE 27 of 72 ---

First of all I want to thank you for sharing your vast experience and knowledge of this 
enneagram thing. I have been studying your posts and have had some success 
understanding them. May I ask how you calculate time degrees? Do I use the eqn. you 
provided in GG 5462:
time deg = mod 360 ( 180 * (cd)^.5 -225 ) 
or do I use something along the lines of what Brian Skelenka showed us?
time deg = 180 * cd 
where cd = calendar days. For example in your GE example:
H = 60.75 (on 7/28/2000)
L = 28.5 (9/21/2001) 
where I get:
Trading Days: 289 = 315 deg or 52.02 deg using BJS method
Calendar Days: 420 = 224 deg or 75.6 " " " "
Price Range: 31.20 = 60 deg
High: 60.00 = 89 deg
Low: 28.80 = 21 deg
you said at the low time and price were conjunct at 135 deg. For the life of me I cannot 
find that 135 degrees. Help! Also in your opinion, does it matter whether or not we start 
the square with a one or a zero in the centre? For that matter, when/why would anyone 
put a number other than 1 or zero in the centre of the sq of 9? I noticed your equation 
uses zero. 
Thanks
-Rick 
Your first equation (copied just below) is the correct one.
> time deg = mod 360 ( 180 * (cd)^.5 -225 ) 
> where cd = calendar days. 
The reason you cannot find 135 degrees is more complicated. 
The main explanation is that I made a key punch error when I did the calculation (a 
hazard of back-of -the- envelope calculation). In fact the day of the low is 389 (not 399 as
I had punched into my calculator) days from the GE high on August 28, 2000 (not July 
First of all I want to thank you for sharing your vast experience and knowledge of this 
enneagram thing. I have been studying your posts and have had some success 
understanding them. May I ask how you calculate time degrees? Do I use the eqn. you 
provided in GG 5462: 
time deg = mod 360 ( 180 * (cd)’*.5 -225 ) 
or do I use something along the lines of what Brian Skelenka showed us? 
time deg = 180 * cd 
where cd = calendar days. For example in your GE example: 
H = 60.75 (on 7/28/2000) 
L = 28.5 (9/21/2001) 
where I get: 
Trading Days: 289 = 315 deg or 52.02 deg using BJS method 
Calendar Days: 420 = 224 deg or 75.6" """ 
Price Range: 31.20 = 60 deg 
High: 60.00 = 89 deg 
Low: 28.80 = 21 deg 
you said at the low time and price were conjunct at 135 deg. For the life of me I cannot 
find that 135 degrees. Help! Also in your opinion, does it matter whether or not we start 
the square with a one or a zero in the centre? For that matter, when/why would anyone 
put a number other than | or zero in the centre of the sq of 9? I noticed your equation 
uses zero. 
Thanks 
-Rick 
Your first equation (copied just below) is the correct one. 
> time deg = mod 360 ( 180 * (cd)*.5 -225 ) 
> where cd = calendar days. 
The reason you cannot find 135 degrees is more complicated. 
The main explanation is that I made a key punch error when I did the calculation (a 
hazard of back-of -the- envelope calculation). In fact the day of the low is 389 (not 399 as 
I had punched into my calculator) days from the GE high on August 28, 2000 (not July

--- PAGE 28 of 72 ---

28, 2000 as you wrote below!). The square root of 388 is 19.723 which is on the 90 
degree angle, not the 135 degree angle. 
The price difference 60.75 high to 28.50 low is 32.25. Multiply this by 10 and you get 
322.5. Square root of this is 17.958 which is on the 135 degree angle as I said in the 
original post.
SO, the bottom line is that I SCREWED UP and the GE low did NOT square time in the 
manner which I originally claimed. Time was on the 90 degree angle while price was on 
the 135 degree angle.
"Sin in haste; repent at leisure."
My sincere apology to all who were confused by my error.
Carl
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/messages/198
I think the point I was trying to make in the paragraphs which preceded the one you 
quoted below in my post was this. The "secret", if it exists, couldn't possibly be found in 
print. No one who knew such a secret would have any possible reason to write about it or 
to explain it to anyone else for the reasons I cited.
I first saw a copy of the square of 9 in 1979. Billy Jones sent one to me in response to an 
inquiry of mine about Gann.
It took me many years to learn how to use this tool. The booklets I wrote about the square
of 9 in 1981-1982 had some interesting ideas but, like all things in print on the subject, 
they don't contain the key technique because I didn't know it then. If I had known it I 
wouldn't have written any booklets about it.
I make my assertions about what Gann knew for two reasons. First I can compare what I 
know to what Gann wrote about in his courses and books. Secondly, I observe that Gann 
was basically an astrologer and played the markets for himself using astrology as his 
basic tool. I can assure you that if he really knew how to apply the square of 9 he would 
never have needed to use financial astrology in the first place. 
Moreover, I personally don't believe that a man who knew the secret to the markets 
would, even in his late 60's and 70's, continue to sell courses and books to the public. I 
think he did this because it was easier for him to make money this way than to take it 
from the market.
28, 2000 as you wrote below!). The square root of 388 is 19.723 which is on the 90 
degree angle, not the 135 degree angle. 
The price difference 60.75 high to 28.50 low is 32.25. Multiply this by 10 and you get 
322.5. Square root of this is 17.958 which is on the 135 degree angle as I said in the 
original post. 
SO, the bottom line is that |SCREWED UP and the GE low did NOT square time in the 
manner which I originally claimed. Time was on the 90 degree angle while price was on 
the 135 degree angle. 
"Sin in haste; repent at leisure." 
My sincere apology to all who were confused by my error. 
Carl 
https://groups. yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsquareofnine/conversations/messages/198 
I think the point I was trying to make in the paragraphs which preceded the one you 
quoted below in my post was this. The "secret", if it exists, couldn't possibly be found in 
print. No one who knew such a secret would have any possible reason to write about it or 
to explain it to anyone else for the reasons I cited. 
I first saw a copy of the square of 9 in 1979. Billy Jones sent one to me in response to an 
inquiry of mine about Gann. 
It took me many years to learn how to use this tool. The booklets I wrote about the square 
of 9 in 1981-1982 had some interesting ideas but, like all things in print on the subject, 
they don't contain the key technique because | didn't know it then. If I had known it I 
wouldn't have written any booklets about it. 
I make my assertions about what Gann knew for two reasons. First I can compare what I 
know to what Gann wrote about in his courses and books. Secondly, I observe that Gann 
was basically an astrologer and played the markets for himself using astrology as his 
basic tool. I can assure you that if he really knew how to apply the square of 9 he would 
never have needed to use financial astrology in the first place. 
Moreover, I personally don't believe that a man who knew the secret to the markets 
would, even in his late 60's and 70's, continue to sell courses and books to the public. I 
think he did this because it was easier for him to make money this way than to take it 
from the market.

--- PAGE 29 of 72 ---

Carl 
--- In gannsghost@y..., "leonoliver" <leonoliver@y...> wrote:
> "I might add parenthetically that I don't believe that Gann himself 
> knew the truth about how markets work. He knew only a small part of 
> the whole story, and that part worked for him only some of the time 
> (for expample, in 1909).Therefore you won't learn what you really 
> need to know from Gann's courses, books or those written by people 
> who are trying to capitalize on Gann's legacy."
> 
> Carl,
H.Albizem@worldnet.att.net
Haytham
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/messages/5463
I've noticed a lot of discussion on Gann's square of 9 so I thought that the group might 
enjoy learning a bit more about this chart.
The square of 9 is known in occult circles as the enneagram (from the Greek "enneas" 
meaning "nine"). I understand (second hand) that a certain Hindu guru (since deceased) 
asserted that whoever unravels the secrets of the enneagram " will enjoy riches and 
wealth and be sexually fertile".
From a mathematical point of view the square of 9 is just an ancient graphical method for
calculating square roots of numbers. As such it goes back thousands of years before 
Gann.
It is easy to write down an exact formula for the numbers in the enneagram which 
correspond to any given degree in the cycle of 360 degrees.
Suppose you want to figure out which numbers in the square of nine (the enne- agram) lie
on the angle of X degrees where X is any number between 0 and 360.
The answer is (2n + 5/4 + 2X/360 )squared. Here n is any whole number (e.g. 
0,1,2,3,4,...). 
This formula gives the cardinal and fixed points on the square of 9 as follows:
0 degrees: (2n + 5/4)squared
45 degrees: (2n + 6/4)squared
90 degrees: (2n + 7/4)squared
Carl 
--- In gannsghost@y..., "leonoliver" <leonoliver@y...> wrote: 
> "TI might add parenthetically that I don't believe that Gann himself 
> knew the truth about how markets work. He knew only a small part of 
> the whole story, and that part worked for him only some of the time 
> (for expample, in 1909).Therefore you won't learn what you really 
> need to know from Gann's courses, books or those written by people 
> who are trying to capitalize on Gann's legacy." 
> 
> Carl, 
H.Albizem@worldnet.att.net 
Haytham 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/messages/5463 
I've noticed a lot of discussion on Gann's square of 9 so I thought that the group might 
enjoy learning a bit more about this chart. 
The square of 9 is known in occult circles as the enneagram (from the Greek "enneas" 
meaning "nine"). I understand (second hand) that a certain Hindu guru (since deceased) 
asserted that whoever unravels the secrets of the enneagram " will enjoy riches and 
wealth and be sexually fertile". 
From a mathematical point of view the square of 9 is just an ancient graphical method for 
calculating square roots of numbers. As such it goes back thousands of years before 
Gann. 
It is easy to write down an exact formula for the numbers in the enneagram which 
correspond to any given degree in the cycle of 360 degrees. 
Suppose you want to figure out which numbers in the square of nine (the enne- agram) lie 
on the angle of X degrees where X is any number between 0 and 360. 
The answer is (2n + 5/4 + 2X/360 )squared. Here n is any whole number (e.g. 
0,1,2,3,4....). 
This formula gives the cardinal and fixed points on the square of 9 as follows: 
0 degrees: (2n + 5/4)squared 
45 degrees: (2n + 6/4)squared 
90 degrees: (2n + 7/4)squared

--- PAGE 30 of 72 ---

135 degrees: (2n) squared
180 degrees: (2n + 1/4)squared
225 degrees: (2n + 2/4)squared
270 degrees: (2n + 3/4)squared
315 degrees: (2n + 1)squared.
EXAMPLE 1: Suppose we want to calculate the numbers on the 225 degree angle. Using 
the formula above for n=1 we get (2x1 + 2/4)squared = 6.25. For n=2 we get (2x2 
+2/4)squared = 20.25. For n=3...etc.
EXAMPLE 2: Suppose we want to calculate the numbers that correspond to 108 degrees.
Substitute X = 108 in the first formula in this post. Then for n=1 we calculate (2x1 + 5/4 
+ 216/360)squared = (2 + 5/4 + 6/10)squared = 14.82. For n=2 we calculate (2x2 + 5/4 + 
216/360) squared = (4 + 5/4 + 6/10)squared = 34.22.
Those of you who have a paper copy of the square of 9 will notice that the calculations 
above correspond to the numbers on the square of 9 chart if one places the number 0 in 
the central square and spirals out from there. 
In my opinion this is the most useful way to convert angles to numbers using the square 
of 9. It requires only a hand calculator with a square root and a square function.
It is silly to spend $$$ to purchase software or copies of the square of 9 when these 
calculations can be done so simply.
Hope this helps.
Carl Futia
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/5483
Hello Carl,
 
Thank you for accepting to answer some questions regarding your work publicly. I 
have 4 questions:
 
1. Do you have other work beside "The Principle of Squares"and " Predicting Market 
Trends With Periodic Number Cycles"
 
2. In the Principle of Squares, you have presented the method by squaring the "natural 
numbers", what about ratios such as 0.382, 0.618, 1.618,...? I found them also to be 
significant for time and price cycles.
 
135 degrees: (2n) squared 
180 degrees: (2n + 1/4)squared 
225 degrees: (2n + 2/4)squared 
270 degrees: (2n + 3/4)squared 
315 degrees: (2n + 1)squared. 
EXAMPLE 1: Suppose we want to calculate the numbers on the 225 degree angle. Using 
the formula above for n=1 we get (2x1 + 2/4)squared = 6.25. For n=2 we get (2x2 
+2/4)squared = 20.25. For n=3...etc. 
EXAMPLE 2: Suppose we want to calculate the numbers that correspond to 108 degrees. 
Substitute X = 108 in the first formula in this post. Then for n=1 we calculate (2x1 + 5/4 
+ 216/360)squared = (2 + 5/4 + 6/10)squared = 14.82. For n=2 we calculate (2x2 + 5/4 + 
216/360) squared = (4 + 5/4 + 6/10)squared = 34.22. 
Those of you who have a paper copy of the square of 9 will notice that the calculations 
above correspond to the numbers on the square of 9 chart if one places the number 0 in 
the central square and spirals out from there. 
In my opinion this is the most useful way to convert angles to numbers using the square 
of 9. It requires only a hand calculator with a square root and a square function. 
It is silly to spend $$$ to purchase software or copies of the square of 9 when these 
calculations can be done so simply. 
Hope this helps. 
Carl Futia 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/5483 
Hello Carl, 
Thank you for accepting to answer some questions regarding your work publicly. I 
have 4 questions: 
1. Do you have other work beside "The Principle of Squares"and " Predicting Market 
Trends With Periodic Number Cycles" 
2. In the Principle of Squares, you have presented the method by squaring the "natural 
numbers", what about ratios such as 0.382, 0.618, 1.618,...? I found them also to be 
significant for time and price cycles.

--- PAGE 31 of 72 ---

3. You have used different formula for time than the price formula, I use the same 
formula for price also for time by adding the natural numbers(or fib ratio) to the time then
resquare, this was able to predict Nasdaq bottom on 4/4/2001, My question: is there a 
reason for using different formula for price?
 
4. In "Predicting Market Trends With Periodic Number Cycles" you have presented 
several other methods, my question: how and when do you use these other methods you 
have mentioned, the point I am trying to reach: it is difficult to use all the methods you 
have mentioned because trader may have different projected days by using them all. 
Personally I use the price method you mentioned for both time and price as a part of the 
important things I always look at in making my decisions.
 
Regards,
 
Haytham
The answer to your first question is easy: the two booklets you mentioned are the only 
ones currently in print.
I'll answer the last three questions in this way.
When I wrote the "Principle of Squares" and "Predicting Market Trends..." twenty years 
ago I was convinced that predicting the timing of future highs and lows was the key to 
success in speculation.
About 70% of what I wrote in those two booklets concerns such "timing" methods.
But I eventually concluded that, at least for my own purposes, timing methods were too 
unreliable. I was interested in making trades at prices as close to the actual highs and 
lows as possible. Even a day's error in an S&P timing prediction would preclude making 
such an exact entry or exit.
So I began to focus solely on understanding support and resistance in price. I eventually 
concluded that the highs and lows of market swings do not occur at random prices but 
instead can be anticipated using, for example, the square of 9. Nowadays time 
calculations play no role in my market approach.
I might add that studying Gann put me on the path to understanding how the market 
really works. But I spent many years being confused by all the innumerable techniques 
one could use. This hindered my progress a great deal. The truth about markets only 
started to emerge from the mist after I abandoned all efforts to forecast the dates of future
highs and lows and instead focused on understanding why price swings stopped at the 
levels they did.
3. You have used different formula for time than the price formula, I use the same 
formula for price also for time by adding the natural numbers(or fib ratio) to the time then 
resquare, this was able to predict Nasdaq bottom on 4/4/2001, My question: is there a 
reason for using different formula for price? 
4. In "Predicting Market Trends With Periodic Number Cycles" you have presented 
several other methods, my question: how and when do you use these other methods you 
have mentioned, the point I am trying to reach: it is difficult to use all the methods you 
have mentioned because trader may have different projected days by using them all. 
Personally I use the price method you mentioned for both time and price as a part of the 
important things I always look at in making my decisions. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
The answer to your first question is easy: the two booklets you mentioned are the only 
ones currently in print. 
I'll answer the last three questions in this way. 
When I wrote the "Principle of Squares" and "Predicting Market Trends..." twenty years 
ago I was convinced that predicting the timing of future highs and lows was the key to 
success in speculation. 
About 70% of what I wrote in those two booklets concerns such "timing" methods. 
But I eventually concluded that, at least for my own purposes, timing methods were too 
unreliable. I was interested in making trades at prices as close to the actual highs and 
lows as possible. Even a day's error in an S&P timing prediction would preclude making 
such an exact entry or exit. 
So I began to focus solely on understanding support and resistance in price. I eventually 
concluded that the highs and lows of market swings do not occur at random prices but 
instead can be anticipated using, for example, the square of 9. Nowadays time 
calculations play no role in my market approach. 
I might add that studying Gann put me on the path to understanding how the market 
really works. But I spent many years being confused by all the innumerable techniques 
one could use. This hindered my progress a great deal. The truth about markets only 
started to emerge from the mist after I abandoned all efforts to forecast the dates of future 
highs and lows and instead focused on understanding why price swings stopped at the 
levels they did.

--- PAGE 32 of 72 ---

So my advice is simple: study support and resistance and forget timing forecasts. I know 
that most Gann aficionados will disagree with me, but then I never had much success 
doing things the way others thought they should be done.
Hope this helps.
Carl
Hello Carl,
Thank you for your reply, do you think that "understanding why price swings stopped at 
the levels they did." related to because "price" at certain levels has a relation to "time", 
for example, measured moves, balancing time and price, square of 9 when converting 
price and time to degrees..
Regards,
Haytham
No I don't.
There are many interesting coincidences where price extremes appear to be controlled by 
some sort of time count (as for example in some sort of squaring of price with time). But 
I myself have never found a method incorporating time counts that CONSISTENTLY 
detects such tops and bottoms.
In my opinion a useful trading method must be consistently accurate and simple to use. 
Otherwise a normal person won't be able to apply it successfully. 
I believe the truth about market is to be found in simple calculations. If you are doing 
something complicated, it probably won't work with enough consistency to enable you to 
follow it mechanically. 
Carl
Hello Carl,
Thank you for sharing your thoughts. To my knowledge there is no simple method which 
can be consistently accurate and simple to use, do you have such method you are willing 
to share.
So my advice is simple: study support and resistance and forget timing forecasts. I know 
that most Gann aficionados will disagree with me, but then I never had much success 
doing things the way others thought they should be done. 
Hope this helps. 
Carl 
Hello Carl, 
Thank you for your reply, do you think that "understanding why price swings stopped at 
the levels they did." related to because "price" at certain levels has a relation to "time", 
for example, measured moves, balancing time and price, square of 9 when converting 
price and time to degrees.. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
No I don't. 
There are many interesting coincidences where price extremes appear to be controlled by 
some sort of time count (as for example in some sort of squaring of price with time). But 
I myself have never found a method incorporating time counts that CONSISTENTLY 
detects such tops and bottoms. 
In my opinion a useful trading method must be consistently accurate and simple to use. 
Otherwise a normal person won't be able to apply it successfully. 
I believe the truth about market is to be found in simple calculations. If you are doing 
something complicated, it probably won't work with enough consistency to enable you to 
follow it mechanically. 
Carl 
Hello Carl, 
Thank you for sharing your thoughts. To my knowledge there is no simple method which 
can be consistently accurate and simple to use, do you have such method you are willing 
to share.

--- PAGE 33 of 72 ---

I have studied and traded all the technical analysis methods from stochastic to RSI to 
Candlestick to everything out there, all works to a certain degree but not consistently, 
when I start studying "time" my performance improved significantly. 
I believe mass psychology reactions and counter reactions are repetitive(cyclical in 
nature)and if we know the vibration rate of specific market it will be easier to evaluate 
the importance of price level, vibration rate has a relation to time, even square of nine 
angles has a relation to time.
Regards,
Haytham
Haytham;
If your methods work for you why bother trying to improve them or find better ones? 
After all, the name of this game is to make money from the market, not to show the world
how smart we are. 
I think a good trader is like a good athlete or a good gambler. 
Barry Bonds can't tell you which pitches he will hit out of the park before the game starts.
He isn't interested in prediction. He is a great player because he REACTS 
APPROPRIATELY to the CURRENT SITUATION, not because he can forecast the 
sequence of pitches he will see or their location in the strike zone. 
A good blackjack player can't tell you before he sits down at the table just which hands 
he will be dealt or whether he will win or loose that day. But he succeeds because he 
REACTS APPROPRIATELY to the hand he holds.
So it is with trading. I calculate support and resistance by measuring from historical highs
and lows and using the square of 9 to covert prices into degrees. When the market 
reaches forecast support or resistance I will fade it if the main trend is in the opposite 
direction. Otherwise I will look for some indication on my hourly charts that support or 
resistance is actually working. That's all there is to it.
I should say that when I first learned about Gann 20 years ago I tried something similar 
but couldn't make it work for me. Part of the reason was that I didn't understand the 
significance of the various angles and consequently didn't calculate correctly. But the 
other reason was that I was so enamoured with the idea of predicting the times when 
trend changes were due that I overlooked phenomena which were in fact staring me in the
face. So many wasted years!
I have studied and traded all the technical analysis methods from stochastic to RSI to 
Candlestick to everything out there, all works to a certain degree but not consistently, 
when I start studying "time" my performance improved significantly. 
I believe mass psychology reactions and counter reactions are repetitive(cyclical in 
nature)and if we know the vibration rate of specific market it will be easier to evaluate 
the importance of price level, vibration rate has a relation to time, even square of nine 
angles has a relation to time. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
Haytham; 
If your methods work for you why bother trying to improve them or find better ones? 
After all, the name of this game is to make money from the market, not to show the world 
how smart we are. 
I think a good trader is like a good athlete or a good gambler. 
Barry Bonds can't tell you which pitches he will hit out of the park before the game starts. 
He isn't interested in prediction. He is a great player because he REACTS 
APPROPRIATELY to the CURRENT SITUATION, not because he can forecast the 
sequence of pitches he will see or their location in the strike zone. 
A good blackjack player can't tell you before he sits down at the table just which hands 
he will be dealt or whether he will win or loose that day. But he succeeds because he 
REACTS APPROPRIATELY to the hand he holds. 
So it is with trading. I calculate support and resistance by measuring from historical highs 
and lows and using the square of 9 to covert prices into degrees. When the market 
reaches forecast support or resistance I will fade it if the main trend is in the opposite 
direction. Otherwise I will look for some indication on my hourly charts that support or 
resistance is actually working. That's all there is to it. 
I should say that when I first learned about Gann 20 years ago I tried something similar 
but couldn't make it work for me. Part of the reason was that I didn't understand the 
significance of the various angles and consequently didn't calculate correctly. But the 
other reason was that I was so enamoured with the idea of predicting the times when 
trend changes were due that I overlooked phenomena which were in fact staring me in the 
face. So many wasted years!

--- PAGE 34 of 72 ---

Carl
Haytham:
This is a postscript to my last response to your response to....
My own trading education followed a course similar to the one you described.
First I learned all the techniques of standard technical analysis. 
Then I learned astrology and Gann. I found that incorporating the time element did 
indeed improve the performance of the standard technical methods.
But I found that my performance was not consistent. I would go through winning streaks,
and then loosing streaks of small losses but many of them. Even more aggravating was 
the problem of missing big swings that my timing methods just didn't see. So finally I 
resolved to apply the "180 degree" principle and do the opposite of what I had been 
doing. So I abandoned standard technical methods, cycles, and 99% of the stuff I learned 
from studying Gann. Instead I focused only on price support and resistance.
I remember some correspondence I had back then with a professional trader who had 
been a member of the CBOT and many other exchanges. I explained some of my timing 
methods and as an aside mentioned that I did a little work with support and resistance 
levels. He responded by saying "If you understand how to calculate support and 
resistance correctly what more do you need?" He was right. I only wish I had paid more 
attention at the time!
Carl
vera10@mediaone.net
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/1052
Brian- 
In your instructions for converting price to degrees, we students are instructed to divide 
the price by 0.0055555....   
Rather than going through this exercise in division, I find it much easier to just 
multiply the price by 180º.  This I can do in my head, whereas I don't have enough of the 
'little gray cells' to do the division in my head.  What do you think? 
I know you are getting a lot of praise for your generous sharing of your knowledge of 
Gann and astro, but, hey, you deserve it!  Thanks again! 
Carl 
Haytham: 
This is a postscript to my last response to your response to.... 
My own trading education followed a course similar to the one you described. 
First I learned all the techniques of standard technical analysis. 
Then I learned astrology and Gann. I found that incorporating the time element did 
indeed improve the performance of the standard technical methods. 
But I found that my performance was not consistent. I would go through winning streaks, 
and then loosing streaks of small losses but many of them. Even more aggravating was 
the problem of missing big swings that my timing methods just didn't see. So finally I 
resolved to apply the "180 degree" principle and do the opposite of what I had been 
doing. So I abandoned standard technical methods, cycles, and 99% of the stuff I learned 
from studying Gann. Instead I focused only on price support and resistance. 
I remember some correspondence I had back then with a professional trader who had 
been a member of the CBOT and many other exchanges. I explained some of my timing 
methods and as an aside mentioned that I did a little work with support and resistance 
levels. He responded by saying "If you understand how to calculate support and 
resistance correctly what more do you need?" He was right. I only wish I had paid more 
attention at the time! 
Carl 
veral0Q@mediaone.net 
https://cgroups.vahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/1052 
Brian- 
In your instructions for converting price to degrees, we students are instructed to divide 
the price by 0.0055555.... 
Rather than going through this exercise in division, I find it much easier to just 
multiply the price by 180°. This I can do in my head, whereas I don't have enough of the 
little gray cells' to do the division in my head. What do you think? 
I know you are getting a lot of praise for your generous sharing of your knowledge of 
Gann and astro, but, hey, you deserve it! Thanks again!

--- PAGE 35 of 72 ---

Paul
Brian- 
When you first started posting here, someone asked you where the 0.0055555 
you were using came from.  Another answered that it was the reciprocal of 180º. 
You agreed that was true. 
Therefore: 
Price / 0.0055555 is mathematically the same as 
Price / (1/180º) = 
Price x 180º 
I just noticed that by multiplying by 180º not only was easier for me, but that this also 
eliminated the rounding error; i.e., 180º is exact! 
Now if I could only remember those twelve funny looking symbols... 
Paul Stein 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/1052
Means you make the program calculate time between last reversal and coming, convert it 
to degree and calculate price on sq9. So you don't have to do it by hand old fashioned 
way or even think about it, it just pops on the screen next to time reversal indicator as a 
line.
No Gann labels, no bs.
Gann didn't invent it anyway, he couldn't even fully explain it, why bother..
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/7449
DJIA 11750 high - 8062 low = 3688 points. It's not a cardinal, corner or natural square. 
But divide 3688 by 11750. It comes out to .3138 or .0001 from a corner
number on the Sq. of 9.
Further, 1/14/00 high to 3/22/01 low (9106) is 434 days and 2644 points. Divide the 
smaller number by the greater: .1641 or a Sq. of 9 corner number.
Paul 
Brian- 
When you first started posting here, someone asked you where the 0.0055555 
you were using came from. Another answered that it was the reciprocal of 180°. 
You agreed that was true. 
Therefore: 
Price / 0.0055555 is mathematically the same as 
Price / (1/180°) = 
Price x 180° 
I just noticed that by multiplying by 180° not only was easier for me, but that this also 
eliminated the rounding error; i.e., 180° is exact! 
Now if I could only remember those twelve funny looking symbols... 
Paul Stein 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/1052 
Means you make the program calculate time between last reversal and coming, convert it 
to degree and calculate price on sq9. So you don't have to do it by hand old fashioned 
way or even think about it, it just pops on the screen next to time reversal indicator as a 
line. 
No Gann labels, no bs. 
Gann didn't invent it anyway, he couldn't even fully explain it, why bother.. 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/7449 
DJIA 11750 high - 8062 low = 3688 points. It's not a cardinal, corner or natural square. 
But divide 3688 by 11750. It comes out to .3138 or .0001 from a corner 
number on the Sq. of 9. 
Further, 1/14/00 high to 3/22/01 low (9106) is 434 days and 2644 points. Divide the 
smaller number by the greater: .1641 or a Sq. of 9 corner number.

--- PAGE 36 of 72 ---

495 days separates the high from the 5/22/01 price of 11350, another high. The 
difference, obviously, is 400 points, a natural square. 495 is one point away from a
180 degree cardinal number of 496. Meanwhile, 400 is one degree from the 
sesquiquadrate angle on the Sq. of 9, meaning time and price move were a semisquare 
apart.
From the 3/22 low to the 5/22 high is 62 days. From the 5/22 high to 9/21 low, 123 days; 
time doubled.
Wayne 
Wayne:
According to my calculator, 60.75 squared =3690.56. Doesn't this mean that 3688 is on 
the cardinal angle of 270 degrees in the square of 9? I might also point out that 
September 18 (3 days prior to the low) was 24.75 squared days from the Dow high at 
11750 on January 14, 2000. Thus time and price were conjunct on the 270 degree angle at
the Dow low.
Unhappy experience has taught me to keep calculations as simple as possible. A toolkit 
with too many tools is useless for trading purposes.
Carl
Wayne:
In the reply I posted below I forgot to mention that the price of 8055 is 89.75 squared. 
Thus The dow low of 8062 was very nearly on the 270 degree angle from zero too. 
Amazing coincidences!
Carl
Wayne;
Sorry, I made a small error.
The price of 8055 is 89.75 squared which is on the 90 degree angle from 0 (not the 270 
angle) and is thus opposition to the configuration arising from measurement from the 
11750 top.
Carl
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/7508
495 days separates the high from the 5/22/01 price of 11350, another high. The 
difference, obviously, is 400 points, a natural square. 495 is one point away from a 
180 degree cardinal number of 496. Meanwhile, 400 is one degree from the 
sesquiquadrate angle on the Sq. of 9, meaning time and price move were a semisquare 
apart. 
From the 3/22 low to the 5/22 high is 62 days. From the 5/22 high to 9/21 low, 123 days; 
time doubled. 
Wayne 
Wayne: 
According to my calculator, 60.75 squared =3690.56. Doesn't this mean that 3688 is on 
the cardinal angle of 270 degrees in the square of 9? I might also point out that 
September 18 (3 days prior to the low) was 24.75 squared days from the Dow high at 
11750 on January 14, 2000. Thus time and price were conjunct on the 270 degree angle at 
the Dow low. 
Unhappy experience has taught me to keep calculations as simple as possible. A toolkit 
with too many tools is useless for trading purposes. 
Carl 
Wayne: 
In the reply I posted below I forgot to mention that the price of 8055 is 89.75 squared. 
Thus The dow low of 8062 was very nearly on the 270 degree angle from zero too. 
Amazing coincidences! 
Carl 
Wayne; 
Sorry, | made a small error. 
The price of 8055 is 89.75 squared which is on the 90 degree angle from 0 (not the 270 
angle) and is thus opposition to the configuration arising from measurement from the 
11750 top. 
Carl 
https://groups. yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/7508

--- PAGE 37 of 72 ---

In June 2002 Eurodollar, there is a mathematical relationship based on time and price 
between the contract low and the high posted today.
 
Time : 29 rounds of helio Mercury.
Price: 7.5 cycle from 90.930 low to today's 97.720 high converting price to rate then 
using square of 9.
 
Fundamentally speaking, most of the economic numbers this month have been very weak
reflecting the Sept. 11th incident. Although, the economy has shown no sign of recovery 
any time soon, the economic weakness of this magnitude is a bit over done. As a result, 
short end is vulnerable to any economic number that shows unusual weakness in 
expectation that the number will come back to more modest decline after the incident.
 
Still, the overall position of long the short end and short the long end to take advantage of
the yield curve steepening from FED easing has been the major play up to now. Once, the
sign of further weakness in the short end is confirmed, in tandem, expect buy back of 
short position in the long end. This should keep the long end to retain value despite the 
weakness in the short end which means
the yield curve should flatten for the time being.
 
Just my observation and not an investment advise of any kind.
 
Utaro
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/messages/8044
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/messages/8181
One of the main reasons I joined this list was to help people avoid the many wrong turns I
made in my life-long quest to understand how markets really work.
With this in mind I thought there might be some interest in a brief history of my efforts to
come to terms with Gann and his legacy.
My first encounter with W.D. Gann occurred in 1966 in the stacks of a university library. 
There I found bound volumes of the Ticker Magazine (later renamed the Magazine of 
Wall Street). Paging through the 1909 volume I found the now famous article on W. D. 
Gann which recounted his trading successes of that year.
My reaction was the same as yours: initial amazement followed by a determination to 
figure out just how Gann did it.
In June 2002 Eurodollar, there is a mathematical relationship based on time and price 
between the contract low and the high posted today. 
Time : 29 rounds of helio Mercury. 
Price: 7.5 cycle from 90.930 low to today's 97.720 high converting price to rate then 
using square of 9. 
Fundamentally speaking, most of the economic numbers this month have been very weak 
reflecting the Sept. 11th incident. Although, the economy has shown no sign of recovery 
any time soon, the economic weakness of this magnitude is a bit over done. As a result, 
short end is vulnerable to any economic number that shows unusual weakness in 
expectation that the number will come back to more modest decline after the incident. 
Still, the overall position of long the short end and short the long end to take advantage of 
the yield curve steepening from FED easing has been the major play up to now. Once, the 
sign of further weakness in the short end is confirmed, in tandem, expect buy back of 
short position in the long end. This should keep the long end to retain value despite the 
weakness in the short end which means 
the yield curve should flatten for the time being. 
Just my observation and not an investment advise of any kind. 
Utaro 
https://zgroups.vahoo.com/neo/groups/ganns ghost/conversations/messages/8044 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/messages/8181 
One of the main reasons I joined this list was to help people avoid the many wrong turns I 
made in my life-long quest to understand how markets really work. 
With this in mind I thought there might be some interest in a brief history of my efforts to 
come to terms with Gann and his legacy. 
My first encounter with W.D. Gann occurred in 1966 in the stacks of a university library. 
There I found bound volumes of the Ticker Magazine (later renamed the Magazine of 
Wall Street). Paging through the 1909 volume I found the now famous article on W. D. 
Gann which recounted his trading successes of that year. 
My reaction was the same as yours: initial amazement followed by a determination to 
figure out just how Gann did it.

--- PAGE 38 of 72 ---

I had no success until 1977 when I saw an ad for an annual stock market forecast put out 
by Lambert-Gann Publishing. At the same time I had read a book by R.E. McMaster 
entitled "Cycles of War". 
In one chapter of his book McMaster recounted Gann's story (and started the myth that 
Gann made $50 million). I wrote to McMaster about Gann. He wrote back saying that he 
had studied Gann’s commodity course but didn't understand much of it. He added that 
much of Gann's work was based on astrology.
I then decided to study astrology which I did extensively for 8 years. I first met Norman 
Winski in 1980 in New Orleans and he was very helpful to me in many ways. Never one 
to leave a stone unturned, I also obtained photocopies of many manuscripts published in 
Latin by European and Arabic astrologers (Bonatus, Morinus, Abu Mashar, Placidus, 
Masha Aallah to name a few- my 4 years of high school Latin came in handy here).
At the time I was publishing a stock and commodity forecasting letter, The Cyclic 
Forecast. My principal technique for long range forecasting was astrology (although I 
didn't tell my readers this), but shorter range forecasts were based on other Gann 
techniques (more on this later).
After eight years of extensive experience with astrological forecasting I reached some 
conclusions. 
First, astrology has value- it is not a hoax as some would have it. 
But my interest was not in assessing the scientific merits of astrology; it was in 
forecasting and trading markets. 
A realistic evaluation of my own experience in astrological market forecasting led me to 
my second conclusion. Astrological forecasting was not consistently accurate enough for 
my purposes. Remember, I spent 8 long years of extensive study and practice in real 
markets before I reached this conclusion. To make astrology a useful tool in markets you 
have to combine it with other things, usually some form of technical analysis. Once you 
start doing this it is hard to see just what added value the astrological forecast gives you.
One can argue of course that I just didn't do astrology right. 
Certainly this is a possibility. But one should consider also the experiences of the many 
brilliant men and women who have studied and practiced astrology through the ages and 
in modern times. If astrology were the key to the markets one would think that at least of 
few would have become market legends. But, as far as I can determine, no astrologer has 
become famous for his or her trading or investing prowess. The single exception to this 
rule is W. D. Gann and, as member of this list know, I have serious doubts about him too.
I had no success until 1977 when I saw an ad for an annual stock market forecast put out 
by Lambert-Gann Publishing. At the same time I had read a book by R.E. McMaster 
entitled "Cycles of War". 
In one chapter of his book McMaster recounted Gann's story (and started the myth that 
Gann made $50 million). I wrote to McMaster about Gann. He wrote back saying that he 
had studied Gann’s commodity course but didn't understand much of it. He added that 
much of Gann's work was based on astrology. 
I then decided to study astrology which I did extensively for 8 years. I first met Norman 
Winski in 1980 in New Orleans and he was very helpful to me in many ways. Never one 
to leave a stone unturned, I also obtained photocopies of many manuscripts published in 
Latin by European and Arabic astrologers (Bonatus, Morinus, Abu Mashar, Placidus, 
Masha Aallah to name a few- my 4 years of high school Latin came in handy here). 
At the time I was publishing a stock and commodity forecasting letter, The Cyclic 
Forecast. My principal technique for long range forecasting was astrology (although I 
didn't tell my readers this), but shorter range forecasts were based on other Gann 
techniques (more on this later). 
After eight years of extensive experience with astrological forecasting I reached some 
conclusions. 
First, astrology has value- it is not a hoax as some would have it. 
But my interest was not in assessing the scientific merits of astrology; it was in 
forecasting and trading markets. 
A realistic evaluation of my own experience in astrological market forecasting led me to 
my second conclusion. Astrological forecasting was not consistently accurate enough for 
my purposes. Remember, I spent 8 long years of extensive study and practice in real 
markets before I reached this conclusion. To make astrology a useful tool in markets you 
have to combine it with other things, usually some form of technical analysis. Once you 
start doing this it is hard to see just what added value the astrological forecast gives you. 
One can argue of course that I just didn't do astrology right. 
Certainly this is a possibility. But one should consider also the experiences of the many 
brilliant men and women who have studied and practiced astrology through the ages and 
in modern times. If astrology were the key to the markets one would think that at least of 
few would have become market legends. But, as far as I can determine, no astrologer has 
become famous for his or her trading or investing prowess. The single exception to this 
rule is W. D. Gann and, as member of this list know, I have serious doubts about him too.

--- PAGE 39 of 72 ---

So if astrology wasn't the answer what was? Back in New Orleans in 1980 where I met 
Norman Winski I also met Phyllis Kahn, a charming and very smart lady who has written
many articles on Gann, has much practical experience applying Gann to markets, and still
puts out a newsletter, Gann Angles. 
I asked Phyllis if it was worthwhile purchasing Gann's commodity course then published 
by Lambert-Gann. She responded with an emphatic yes. This was the turning point in my
market career.
I studied the commodity course and came away with three main ideas. 
First was the basic idea that trend changes occurred when price squared time (whatever 
this meant!). Second was the technique of geometric angles, especially the 1x1 angle and 
especially the angles from the price of 0 which start at the time of a major high or low. 
Finally, and most important, was the square of 9 (or the octagon chart as I liked to call it 
at the time).
In my market letter I used all of these ideas ( plus my astrological forecasts) to predict 
highs and lows in stocks and commodities and to identify the direction of the main trend. 
I had many successes and my share of failures too.
I shut down the letter in 1983 and went off on my own to trade and manage money. Here 
too I had some successes and some failures.
For a time I even abandoned Gann ideas in my market work completely. But one very 
peculiar and fortunate event had occurred in 1981 and it kept me returning to my old 
Gann work periodically, wondering whether I had missed something.
While still publishing the Cyclic Forecast I wrote my two booklets, "The Principle of 
Squares" and “Predicting Market Trends with Periodic Number Cycles". One of my 
subscribers wrote to me after reading "The Principle of Squares" and asserted that the 
market was an exact mathematical science. He said that Gann knew only one true thing 
and hinted that it was related to the Square of 9 (I didn't catch this hint until a number of 
years later). He asserted that all other Gann techniques worked only some of the time and
were not effective enough to rely upon in trading. 
Since this man had been a member of the Board of Trade as well as a number of foreign 
exchanges he had some credibility with me. It took me many years before I understood 
what he had only hinted at.
Meantime I had been experimenting again with techniques for squaring price with time. I 
was measuring price using the harmonics of 360 ( Gann students call this the square of 
90). I was close to what I now understand to be the key to the markets but was using the 
wrong tool.
So if astrology wasn't the answer what was? Back in New Orleans in 1980 where I met 
Norman Winski I also met Phyllis Kahn, a charming and very smart lady who has written 
many articles on Gann, has much practical experience applying Gann to markets, and still 
puts out a newsletter, Gann Angles. 
I asked Phyllis if it was worthwhile purchasing Gann's commodity course then published 
by Lambert-Gann. She responded with an emphatic yes. This was the turning point in my 
market career. 
I studied the commodity course and came away with three main ideas. 
First was the basic idea that trend changes occurred when price squared time (whatever 
this meant!). Second was the technique of geometric angles, especially the 1x1 angle and 
especially the angles from the price of 0 which start at the time of a major high or low. 
Finally, and most important, was the square of 9 (or the octagon chart as I liked to call it 
at the time). 
In my market letter I used all of these ideas ( plus my astrological forecasts) to predict 
highs and lows in stocks and commodities and to identify the direction of the main trend. 
I had many successes and my share of failures too. 
I shut down the letter in 1983 and went off on my own to trade and manage money. Here 
too I had some successes and some failures. 
For a time I even abandoned Gann ideas in my market work completely. But one very 
peculiar and fortunate event had occurred in 1981 and it kept me returning to my old 
Gann work periodically, wondering whether I had missed something. 
While still publishing the Cyclic Forecast I wrote my two booklets, "The Principle of 
Squares" and “Predicting Market Trends with Periodic Number Cycles". One of my 
subscribers wrote to me after reading "The Principle of Squares" and asserted that the 
market was an exact mathematical science. He said that Gann knew only one true thing 
and hinted that it was related to the Square of 9 (I didn't catch this hint until a number of 
years later). He asserted that all other Gann techniques worked only some of the time and 
were not effective enough to rely upon in trading. 
Since this man had been a member of the Board of Trade as well as a number of foreign 
exchanges he had some credibility with me. It took me many years before I understood 
what he had only hinted at. 
Meantime I had been experimenting again with techniques for squaring price with time. I 
was measuring price using the harmonics of 360 ( Gann students call this the square of 
90). I was close to what I now understand to be the key to the markets but was using the 
wrong tool.

--- PAGE 40 of 72 ---

Then I again got sidetracked and started to study planetary support and resistance. This I 
did for several years. I concluded that this method has value, but it doesn't tell you what 
you really need to know: just how big a reversal should one expect once a support or 
resistance level is hit.
Finally, after these many detours I returned to my first love, the Square of 9. One day I 
was sitting at my desk mulling over my history of working with Gann ideas. A flash of 
inspiration led me to look at a recent market extreme to see whether it showed a squaring 
of price with time using the square of 9. It did and that started 
me on the road to developing the method I use today.
The problem with Gann is that there are many "doors" to choose from. Each one opens 
onto a path of study which can take many years. Yet I think that only one door leads to 
the truth about market. All the others lead to techniques which work only some of the 
time and are not reliable enough to trade with.
I know most people on this list have commitments to this or that Gann technique. But if 
you choose badly you will search many years and never get where you want to go.
I hope my own story will serve as a warning and as a cautionary tale.
Carl
alblak1940 (Allan Blakstad?)
HI CARL
I have read ur story with great interest.
For some reasons I cud not respond to it b4 now.
U made following statement :
>>>>Astrological forecasting was not consistently accurate enough for my purposes....To
make astrology a useful tool in markets you have to combine it with other things, usually 
some form of technical analysis.
>>>
I think that goes for Mr Gann too.
In his yearly forecasts he had a tendency to expect turns within a short time-frame of 
some 2-3 days. If u check some of them u will find that sometimes his time-frame was set
even wider. The reason for this is that the forecasting method which I believe Gann used 
was not at all accurate all the time despite the fact that he also averaged the cycle turns to 
get what he called a vibration point.
Then I again got sidetracked and started to study planetary support and resistance. This I 
did for several years. I concluded that this method has value, but it doesn't tell you what 
you really need to know: just how big a reversal should one expect once a support or 
resistance level is hit. 
Finally, after these many detours I returned to my first love, the Square of 9. One day I 
was sitting at my desk mulling over my history of working with Gann ideas. A flash of 
inspiration led me to look at a recent market extreme to see whether it showed a squaring 
of price with time using the square of 9. It did and that started 
me on the road to developing the method I use today. 
The problem with Gann is that there are many "doors" to choose from. Each one opens 
onto a path of study which can take many years. Yet I think that only one door leads to 
the truth about market. All the others lead to techniques which work only some of the 
time and are not reliable enough to trade with. 
I know most people on this list have commitments to this or that Gann technique. But if 
you choose badly you will search many years and never get where you want to go. 
I hope my own story will serve as a warning and as a cautionary tale. 
Carl 
alblak1940 (Allan Blakstad?) 
HI CARL 
I have read ur story with great interest. 
For some reasons I cud not respond to it b4 now. 
U made following statement : 
>>>>Astrological forecasting was not consistently accurate enough for my purposes....To 
make astrology a useful tool in markets you have to combine it with other things, usually 
some form of technical analysis. 
>>> 
I think that goes for Mr Gann too. 
In his yearly forecasts he had a tendency to expect turns within a short time-frame of 
some 2-3 days. If u check some of them u will find that sometimes his time-frame was set 
even wider. The reason for this is that the forecasting method which I believe Gann used 
was not at all accurate all the time despite the fact that he also averaged the cycle turns to 
get what he called a vibration point.

--- PAGE 41 of 72 ---

These vibration points he used as guideline for his yearly forecasts. He then zoomed it in 
later when using his key cycle for shorter term action as described in one of his books 
(TTTA) Even the short term cycle sometimes gives u a headache when deciding what the
key vibration point shud be. 
One good example is the current action in may wheat/2002 contract.
If the market hasn't made an inversion (which occur from time to time) since dec 13/2001
low we have likely seen a dec 28 top. The problem is that the vibration top dec 28 was 
very early. Best wud have been a dec 31st high.
Now we are already talking jan 2nd and if the cycle is overdue we have a possibility to 
endure the cycle top until 2morrow.
As u can see that is a very wide range tho it is not at all uncommon that the vibration 
point comes in at a slightly lower top (or higher low). 
So I agree with u that following strictly astrological timing must be used with utmost care
to which u may add tech. analysis.
In fact Gann himself in his 1921 book "Truth of the Stock tape" wrote 
: " I am considered an expert tape reader"...Yes, one statement went even further using 
the expression "intuitive tape reading “ 
I believe he knew what he was talking about as he knew that his astrological method 
sometimes cud be slightly off. Of course that is why he also put so much emphasis on 
stop losses in his writing.
For those who may have an interest in May wheat it shud follow the downside when the 
last minor swing low has been broken or even today's low. Assuming that we have not 
made an inversion I believe that is the next direction of wheat.
The next cycle low shud come in around jan 16. 
From there it shud go up until jan 28 before a reaction shud take us well into feb or the 
11. The next top after this shud be around feb 18/2002. 
These dates serve as guideline in the forecast just the way I believe they did for mr. 
Gann.( I have not worked out the exact short term action points for confirmation)
Funny enough many of the dates mentioned coincide well with new and full moon dates. 
This is not always the case but when they do it may add further confidence to a forecast. 
Some readers may see that the moon set up in this case may be opposite of what 
suggested by Burton Pugh.
Finally Carl: Im not so sure that only one door leads to the truth about markets. 
However ...if that door is cyclic repetition I do agree but remember that he also advised 
us to follow "all" of his rules "all" the time. 
I don't think he meant "all" tho !
I prefer to use some of the key cycles as he mentioned specifically in Tunnel for 
confirmation. 
Tks for writing.
These vibration points he used as guideline for his yearly forecasts. He then zoomed it in 
later when using his key cycle for shorter term action as described in one of his books 
(TTTA) Even the short term cycle sometimes gives u a headache when deciding what the 
key vibration point shud be. 
One good example is the current action in may wheat/2002 contract. 
If the market hasn't made an inversion (which occur from time to time) since dec 13/2001 
low we have likely seen a dec 28 top. The problem is that the vibration top dec 28 was 
very early. Best wud have been a dec 31st high. 
Now we are already talking jan 2nd and if the cycle is overdue we have a possibility to 
endure the cycle top until 2morrow. 
As u can see that is a very wide range tho it is not at all uncommon that the vibration 
point comes in at a slightly lower top (or higher low). 
So I agree with u that following strictly astrological timing must be used with utmost care 
to which u may add tech. analysis. 
In fact Gann himself in his 1921 book "Truth of the Stock tape" wrote 
:" T am considered an expert tape reader"... 
Yes, one statement went even further using 
the expression "intuitive tape reading “ 
I believe he knew what he was talking about as he knew that his astrological method 
sometimes cud be slightly off. Of course that is why he also put so much emphasis on 
stop losses in his writing. 
For those who may have an interest in May wheat it shud follow the downside when the 
last minor swing low has been broken or even today's low. Assuming that we have not 
made an inversion I believe that is the next direction of wheat. 
The next cycle low shud come in around jan 16. 
From there it shud go up until jan 28 before a reaction shud take us well into feb or the 
11. The next top after this shud be around feb 18/2002. 
These dates serve as guideline in the forecast just the way I believe they did for mr. 
Gann.( I have not worked out the exact short term action points for confirmation) 
Funny enough many of the dates mentioned coincide well with new and full moon dates. 
This is not always the case but when they do it may add further confidence to a forecast. 
Some readers may see that the moon set up in this case may be opposite of what 
suggested by Burton Pugh. 
Finally Carl: Im not so sure that only one door leads to the truth about markets. 
However ...if that door is cyclic repetition I do agree but remember that he also advised 
us to follow "all" of his rules "all" the time. 
I don't think he meant "all" tho ! 
I prefer to use some of the key cycles as he mentioned specifically in Tunnel for 
confirmation. 
Tks for writing.

--- PAGE 42 of 72 ---

Kindest regards
Allan
Yes u are rite.
In fact May wheat did make an inversion late dec.01
The base wud therefore be that dec 31st actually was the turn date for the low despite a 
slightly higher one. It was a difficult set up I admit as described in my earlier mail. The 
forecast called for the next turn to be around jan16. An average of previous med-term 
cycles I have tested in fact prefer jan 17 as best for a top. 
Jan 28 shud then turn out to be a low while the feb 11 shud be a high. 
In fact rechecking this last one...a feb 14 maybe 15th wud be a better turn date for this 
particular high. 
Feb 19/20 shud be very important for May wheat.
In fact the whole period feb 14 - feb 21 is very important.
The forecast calls for an important move of considerable time and possible also in price 
to follow when this period has passed.
Speaking of prices I am only able to give u a few points that I have worked out so far. U 
may take it for what it is as the working out of percentages is something I still need to do 
more work on.
Well here goes.
The current move shud end ideally at 311...hope to see that completed 2morrow or the 
day after. U may have noticed that we saw 309 1/2 on the 14th.
A low on jan 28 has a price target of 291 1/2 in may wheat while the feb 14 high 
indicates 323. 
I hope this helps tho I warn u that futures trading is a risky business.
Have a great day.
Allan
Yes, I believe May wheat is running out of time to the downside. After the top in mid jan 
the forecast was down to jan 28 for a low of 291 1/2. We saw 288 1/2 today and I take 
that on account of lost motion.
The cycle is now 2 days overdue according to what I believe was the yearly forecast 
cycle Gann used in his days.. As I have pointed out b4 it can vary slightly from its 
vibrational mean despite methods available that may zoom it in.
I believe a move of some 30 cents is waiting for us on the upside in may wheat as the 
next vibration mean is feb 14 or 15 for a price of 320 1/4 which is a few points below my 
original forecast of 323.
U have asked me how I use percentages.
Unfortunately I can only give u one clue which is much importance tho.
Kindest regards 
Allan 
Yes ware rite. 
In fact May wheat did make an inversion late dec.01 
The base wud therefore be that dec 31st actually was the turn date for the low despite a 
slightly higher one. It was a difficult set up I admit as described in my earlier mail. The 
forecast called for the next turn to be around jan16. An average of previous med-term 
cycles I have tested in fact prefer jan 17 as best for a top. 
Jan 28 shud then turn out to be a low while the feb 11 shud be a high. 
In fact rechecking this last one...a feb 14 maybe 15th wud be a better turn date for this 
particular high. 
Feb 19/20 shud be very important for May wheat. 
In fact the whole period feb 14 - feb 21 is very important. 
The forecast calls for an important move of considerable time and possible also in price 
to follow when this period has passed. 
Speaking of prices I am only able to give u a few points that I have worked out so far. U 
may take it for what it is as the working out of percentages is something I still need to do 
more work on. 
Well here goes. 
The current move shud end ideally at 311...hope to see that completed 2morrow or the 
day after. U may have noticed that we saw 309 1/2 on the 14th. 
A low on jan 28 has a price target of 291 1/2 in may wheat while the feb 14 high 
indicates 323. 
I hope this helps tho I warn u that futures trading is a risky business. 
Have a great day. 
Allan 
Yes, I believe May wheat is running out of time to the downside. After the top in mid jan 
the forecast was down to jan 28 for a low of 291 1/2. We saw 288 1/2 today and I take 
that on account of lost motion. 
The cycle is now 2 days overdue according to what I believe was the yearly forecast 
cycle Gann used in his days.. As I have pointed out b4 it can vary slightly from its 
vibrational mean despite methods available that may zoom it in. 
I believe a move of some 30 cents is waiting for us on the upside in may wheat as the 
next vibration mean is feb 14 or 15 for a price of 320 1/4 which is a few points below my 
original forecast of 323. 
U have asked me how I use percentages. 
Unfortunately I can only give u one clue which is much importance tho.

--- PAGE 43 of 72 ---

On page 32 in "Profits in Commodities " Gann wrote : " You must apply time cycles and 
time rules in connection with figuring percentages on the bottom"...and I will add also to 
tops as just above this passage he wrote : "each top or bottom…. comes out in accordance
with an exact mathematical proportion to some other top or bottom"
As u may be aware of most people use percentages from any top or bottom that may add 
up to something. In this case Gann tells us to use specific tops and bottoms according to 
the time cycle....That is a great difference. 
When that is done, and only then u may add up percentages from other tops and bottoms 
of importance. I guess it shud not be hard tho to find many confirmations in doing so.
In addition to this I use the sq9 and the "master 360 price and time chart" to find 
confirming angles to my forecasted price.
I believe it wud also be helpful to look at planetary lines tho Im very careful not to rely 
too much upon them.
I still work hard to improve the percentages work Im doing in order to make them better 
and better. The set up can sometimes be disturbing on account of lost motion. Best in 
those cases is to get confirmation from other contracts like wheat december which I use a 
lot.
I will update again in mid feb as I know u pay attention.
Kindest regards
Allan
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/8204
Thanks Carl.  I've been tinkering around with calculations, but wasn't hitting the numbers
you posted, so I wondered whether it was a contract difference, e.g front month high was 
112-19, while USH2 high was 111-17.  I keep front month charts for weekly and 
monthly, but , like you, dial down to the current contract month for daily swings.  
Unfortunately, this means that its my methodology, not contract choice, that's creating the
difference!
 
FWIW - using 4 ticks/day as a measurement, the 50% level on the square of 144 price-
wise is also 98.  The top of 144 is 107 which was significant resistance in Jan. and March
of this year, and 111 1/2 was 1.25 X 144 (missed the high price, but high close on USZ 
was 111 1/2), so it has been worthwhile to follow.
 
Thanks for your posts.
 
Greg
Carl
 
On page 32 in "Profits in Commodities " Gann wrote : " You must apply time cycles and 
time rules in connection with figuring percentages on the bottom"...and I will add also to 
tops as just above this passage he wrote : "each top or bottom.... comes out in accordance 
with an exact mathematical proportion to some other top or bottom" 
As u may be aware of most people use percentages from any top or bottom that may add 
up to something. In this case Gann tells us to use specific tops and bottoms according to 
the time cycle....That is a great difference. 
When that is done, and only then u may add up percentages from other tops and bottoms 
of importance. I guess it shud not be hard tho to find many confirmations in doing so. 
In addition to this I use the sq9 and the "master 360 price and time chart" to find 
confirming angles to my forecasted price. 
I believe it wud also be helpful to look at planetary lines tho Im very careful not to rely 
too much upon them. 
I still work hard to improve the percentages work Im doing in order to make them better 
and better. The set up can sometimes be disturbing on account of lost motion. Best in 
those cases is to get confirmation from other contracts like wheat december which I use a 
lot. 
I will update again in mid feb as I know u pay attention. 
Kindest regards 
Allan 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/8204 
Thanks Carl. I've been tinkering around with calculations, but wasn't hitting the numbers 
you posted, so I wondered whether it was a contract difference, e.g front month high was 
112-19, while USH2 high was 111-17. I keep front month charts for weekly and 
monthly, but , like you, dial down to the current contract month for daily swings. 
Unfortunately, this means that its my methodology, not contract choice, that's creating the 
difference! 
FWIW 
- using 4 ticks/day as a measurement, the 50% level on the square of 144 price- 
wise is also 98. The top of 144 is 107 which was significant resistance in Jan. and March 
of this year, and 111 1/2 was 1.25 X 144 (missed the high price, but high close on USZ 
was 111 1/2), so it has been worthwhile to follow. 
Thanks for your posts. 
Greg 
Carl

--- PAGE 44 of 72 ---

Your levels seem to be holding for now.  I am curious - are your calculations based on 
the March contracts or continuous front month contracts?  Or doesn't it matter because 
you're working on ticks travelled rather than absolute prices?
 
Greg
Greg:
The answer to your question is a bit complicated. I could't give you a complete answer 
without explaining details of my calculations which I prefer to keep to myself. 
However, I will explain the general guidelines I use. For longer term work (intermediate 
term trends and major trends) I usually use continuation contract numbers while for 
shorter term work the current contract extremes.
If by continuous contracts you mean those which are weighted averages of two or more 
nearby contracts, just let me say that I have never found these useful for my calculations.
Carl
Vedic sources:
Sidereal Astrology(make sure you get Parasara Hora Sastra- bible of Vedic Astrology):
http://www.jdrventures.com/
Gregory
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/8703
Being British my knowledge of American history is sketchy to say the least but as I 
understand it the war of independence started because of the taxes imposed by king 
George to pay for the war against the French.
This is a naive piece of propaganda imo and the continuance of slavery was closer to the 
hearts of Benjamin Franklin and others who were wary of British politicians who wished 
to dispense with it.
To illustrate the conspiracy it is interesting to note that the war against France was 
actually triggered by the shooting of French civilian prisoners by British troops. However
the officer who ordered the shooting, and I have no doubt he knew what would become 
of it, was none other than George Washington himself who was a serving officer in the 
British Army at the time. 
George Washington was a freemason, so was Benjamin Franklin but their connections 
run deeper than just simple freemasonry. Franklin was a member of the hellfire club with 
Your levels seem to be holding for now. I am curious - are your calculations based on 
the March contracts or continuous front month contracts? Or doesn't it matter because 
you're working on ticks travelled rather than absolute prices? 
Greg 
Greg: 
The answer to your question is a bit complicated. I could't give you a complete answer 
without explaining details of my calculations which I prefer to keep to myself. 
However, I will explain the general guidelines I use. For longer term work (intermediate 
term trends and major trends) I usually use continuation contract numbers while for 
shorter term work the current contract extremes. 
If by continuous contracts you mean those which are weighted averages of two or more 
nearby contracts, just let me say that I have never found these useful for my calculations. 
Carl 
Vedic sources: 
Sidereal Astrology(make sure you get Parasara Hora Sastra- bible of Vedic Astrology): 
http://www.jdrventures.com/ 
Gregory 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/8703 
Being British my knowledge of American history is sketchy to say the least but as I 
understand it the war of independence started because of the taxes imposed by king 
George to pay for the war against the French. 
This is a naive piece of propaganda imo and the continuance of slavery was closer to the 
hearts of Benjamin Franklin and others who were wary of British politicians who wished 
to dispense with it. 
To illustrate the conspiracy it is interesting to note that the war against France was 
actually triggered by the shooting of French civilian prisoners by British troops. However 
the officer who ordered the shooting, and I have no doubt he knew what would become 
of it, was none other than George Washington himself who was a serving officer in the 
British Army at the time. 
George Washington was a freemason, so was Benjamin Franklin but their connections 
run deeper than just simple freemasonry. Franklin was a member of the hellfire club with

--- PAGE 45 of 72 ---

links through its founder to esoteric societies, the Templars and the Illuminati. The 
illuminati funded Rosicrucian and Freemason lodges in Germany and elsewhere.
The 'poor' knights Templar saved Scotland from defeat by England when a troop of their 
knights arrived on the battle field at Bannockburn at just the right moment to save the 
Scots who were being hard pressed. This troop of knights appears to have 2 years 
previously fled papal persecution in the Languedoc region of France in the Templars own
private navy to Scotland, which was not under papal domination at the time. Eventually 
their stay was an embarrassment to the Scots and they faded out of sight thereafter. Its 
possible the Templar's navy went to America in the 1300s and took many of the knights 
with them. It is rumoured that one St Clair family member went to America about that 
time. The St Clairs (Sinclairs) were/are heavily involved in these mysteries all the way 
back to the excavations of Solomons temple after the first crusade.
The Templars were far from poor. They effectively created an international banking 
system and accumulated absolutely vast wealth. It was this wealth that made the French 
king seek papal authority to persecute the Templars. The excuse was the gnostic heresy. 
Unfortunately for him all the treasure disappeared before he could get his greedy fingers 
on it. The Templars had paid spies and sympathisers everywhere including inside the 
Vatican and were tipped off about Simon de Montford's plans.
The game that is being played is a very long one indeed, so long it stretches into the pre 
christian era, even before the time of Osiris.
Astrologers have always wielded great power and influence. One example of this was the
astrologer to the King Raja Raja who persuaded him to build thousands of temples in 
southern India. This particular astrologer may have been one of the seven sages as it 
appears he was instrumental in ordering an expedition to build the temple of Angor Wat 
in Cambodia. This temple is connected with the pyramid at Giseh and others including 
one now subterranean just off the shores of Easter island which all lie on particular 
longitudes around the world.
I believe this society of sages with its power and influence over the millennia has 
spawned a myriad of other organisations, including the Royal Society? the Bildeburg 
group? which themselves have no idea of the true end game. These astrologers with a 
vast knowledge gleaned from 40,000 years of stargazing, observing and manipulating 
human events have accumulated vast wealth and are well placed to take advantage of 
todays electronic systems to control and manipulate the worlds markets.
They also spread disinformation and are always represented on both sides in any conflict 
so that no matter who loses they are always on the winning side. For example, Mao Tse 
Tung was a master freemason so were Santa Anna and Huston.
There is a long game imo and we are all potential victims of it.
(btw nothing I say should be taken too seriously)
Andrew
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/2374
links through its founder to esoteric societies, the Templars and the Illuminati. The 
illuminati funded Rosicrucian and Freemason lodges in Germany and elsewhere. 
The 'poor' knights Templar saved Scotland from defeat by England when a troop of their 
knights arrived on the battle field at Bannockburn at just the right moment to save the 
Scots who were being hard pressed. This troop of knights appears to have 2 years 
previously fled papal persecution in the Languedoc region of France in the Templars own 
private navy to Scotland, which was not under papal domination at the time. Eventually 
their stay was an embarrassment to the Scots and they faded out of sight thereafter. Its 
possible the Templar's navy went to America in the 1300s and took many of the knights 
with them. It is rumoured that one St Clair family member went to America about that 
time. The St Clairs (Sinclairs) were/are heavily involved in these mysteries all the way 
back to the excavations of Solomons temple after the first crusade. 
The Templars were far from poor. They effectively created an international banking 
system and accumulated absolutely vast wealth. It was this wealth that made the French 
king seek papal authority to persecute the Templars. The excuse was the gnostic heresy. 
Unfortunately for him all the treasure disappeared before he could get his greedy fingers 
on it. The Templars had paid spies and sympathisers everywhere including inside the 
Vatican and were tipped off about Simon de Montford's plans. 
The game that is being played is a very long one indeed, so long it stretches into the pre 
christian era, even before the time of Osiris. 
Astrologers have always wielded great power and influence. One example of this was the 
astrologer to the King Raja Raja who persuaded him to build thousands of temples in 
southern India. This particular astrologer may have been one of the seven sages as it 
appears he was instrumental in ordering an expedition to build the temple of Angor Wat 
in Cambodia. This temple is connected with the pyramid at Giseh and others including 
one now subterranean just off the shores of Easter island which all lie on particular 
longitudes around the world. 
I believe this society of sages with its power and influence over the millennia has 
spawned a myriad of other organisations, including the Royal Society? the Bildeburg 
group? which themselves have no idea of the true end game. These astrologers with a 
vast knowledge gleaned from 40,000 years of stargazing, observing and manipulating 
human events have accumulated vast wealth and are well placed to take advantage of 
todays electronic systems to control and manipulate the worlds markets. 
They also spread disinformation and are always represented on both sides in any conflict 
so that no matter who loses they are always on the winning side. For example, Mao Tse 
Tung was a master freemason so were Santa Anna and Huston. 
There is a long game imo and we are all potential victims of it. 
(btw nothing I say should be taken too seriously) 
Andrew 
https://groups. yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/2374

--- PAGE 46 of 72 ---

Hello everyone,
 
I don't regularly do the ellipse analysis (I'm lazy) but when you do it I think it quite often 
reveals the underlying cycles visually. I find it to be very useful when you are in doubt or
unsure of any cycle (astro or geometry) change that is about to take place. If you look at 
the chart, I think you can see that the ellipse can work together with many other tools. I 
used Excel 2000's built in auto shape function. I used to use Adobe Illustrator and it can 
do a lot of 2 dimensional ratio analysis and overlay all kinds of shapes to a chart but it 
wasn't user friendly (after all it is an illustration software!). Unfortunately, the Excel 97 
doesn't have this function of ellipse that let you tilt the axis, only Excel 2000 does, so be 
careful. I think when you are at a critical stage of making trading decision based on 
cycles, this analysis might help to fine tune your trading strategy. The basic concept came
from Brad Cowan and George Bayer's ellipse analysis but this one has been drawn totally
by my eyes and feel. No math. In my opinion eyeball and feel works just as good as 
anything. This is an ongoing development of just another type of market analysis and I 
am in no way an expert. So please tell me if there are any improvements that can be 
made to the technique or any opinion is welcomed.
 
Best regards, Utaro Hayashi
Utaro,
Thank you for sharing this with us, I find your post very interesting because you are able 
to "rotate" the ellipse to fit chart, I know ellipse method is "very" important, in fact 
George Bayer described it as "the most important method shown in this book". 
What has prevented me from doing further research on ellipse using Bayer work is the 
"scale" problem, George used chart paper made by Keuffel & Esser of New York, this is 
not exist anymore(I think) and he did not talk about the scale when he describe the 
dimension of the ellipse.
I would highly appreciate if you share with us how did you use excel 2000 to generate 
ellipse and what software did you use to draw this picture and ellipses.
Regards,
Haytham
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/2088
As some on this list know I trade Nasdaq daily swings(rarely intraday), I do not post 
much anymore because I am busy trading, I am revealing for the first time some of my 
Hello everyone, 
I don't regularly do the ellipse analysis (I'm lazy) but when you do it I think it quite often 
reveals the underlying cycles visually. I find it to be very useful when you are in doubt or 
unsure of any cycle (astro or geometry) change that is about to take place. If you look at 
the chart, I think you can see that the ellipse can work together with many other tools. I 
used Excel 2000's built in auto shape function. I used to use Adobe Illustrator and it can 
do a lot of 2 dimensional ratio analysis and overlay all kinds of shapes to a chart but it 
wasn't user friendly (after all it is an illustration software!). Unfortunately, the Excel 97 
doesn't have this function of ellipse that let you tilt the axis, only Excel 2000 does, so be 
careful. I think when you are at a critical stage of making trading decision based on 
cycles, this analysis might help to fine tune your trading strategy. The basic concept came 
from Brad Cowan and George Bayer's ellipse analysis but this one has been drawn totally 
by my eyes and feel. No math. In my opinion eyeball and feel works just as good as 
anything. This is an ongoing development of just another type of market analysis and I 
am in no way an expert. So please tell me if there are any improvements that can be 
made to the technique or any opinion is welcomed. 
Best regards, Utaro Hayashi 
Utaro, 
Thank you for sharing this with us, I find your post very interesting because you are able 
to "rotate" the ellipse to fit chart, I know ellipse method is "very" important, in fact 
George Bayer described it as "the most important method shown in this book". 
What has prevented me from doing further research on ellipse using Bayer work is the 
"scale" problem, George used chart paper made by Keuffel & Esser of New York, this is 
not exist anymore(I think) and he did not talk about the scale when he describe the 
dimension of the ellipse. 
I would highly appreciate if you share with us how did you use excel 2000 to generate 
ellipse and what software did you use to draw this picture and ellipses. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/2088 
As some on this list know I trade Nasdaq daily swings(rarely intraday), I do not post 
much anymore because I am busy trading, I am revealing for the first time some of my

--- PAGE 47 of 72 ---

proprietary methods based on astro analysis. The vertical line represent days projected 
into the future for potential turning point.
 
My method is simple: I watch the days of these vertical lines and mid point between 2 
vertical lines for reversal using 60 min bars, MACD, RSI, volume and candlesticks, I 
increase my accuracy by using bar count, measured move, square of nine and other 
squares, Gann angles,...
 
The gif pictures is what I saw yesterday.
 
Regards,
 
Haytham
As you all know squares of natural numbers(1,2,3,..) represent important "time" 
resistance levels need to be watched.
 
Some other evidence of 6/29/2001 turning point:
 
5/24/2000 L to 9/1/2000 H is 70 trading days X 4(natural square of 2) = 280 add this to 
5/24/2000 will equal 6/29/2001
3/7/2001 to 4/4/2001 L  =20 trading days X4=80 added to 3/7/2001 = 6/29/2001
 
Natural number squares: 5/24/2000 to 6/29/2001 is 401 calendar days(400 is square of 
20)
 
Last, 4/4/2001 to 6/29/2001 is 60 trading days.
 
Regards,
 
Haytham
 
 
P.S. I hope some has benefited from my previous messages(5/13/2001) # 5704 on RTsite 
when I posted 5/22/2000 as a turning point for Nasdaq(it was actual turn) and recent 
message on WITS site (6/17/2001) # 456 for projected turning point on 6/19/2001 -/+ 1 
d(6/20/2001 was the actual low)
leonoliver@yahoo.com
Gann said to watch for turning point on the 98th day (2 x 7squared).
6/29 @98 solar degree is 99 days from 3/22.
proprietary methods based on astro analysis. The vertical line represent days projected 
into the future for potential turning point. 
My method is simple: I watch the days of these vertical lines and mid point between 2 
vertical lines for reversal using 60 min bars, MACD, RSI, volume and candlesticks, I 
increase my accuracy by using bar count, measured move, square of nine and other 
squares, Gann angles,... 
The gif pictures is what I saw yesterday. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
As you all know squares of natural numbers(1,2,3,..) represent important "time" 
resistance levels need to be watched. 
Some other evidence of 6/29/2001 turning point: 
5/24/2000 L to 9/1/2000 H is 70 trading days X 4(natural square of 2) = 280 add this to 
5/24/2000 will equal 6/29/2001 
3/7/2001 to 4/4/2001 L =20 trading days X4=80 added to 3/7/2001 = 6/29/2001 
Natural number squares: 5/24/2000 to 6/29/2001 is 401 calendar days(400 is square of 
20) 
Last, 4/4/2001 to 6/29/2001 is 60 trading days. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
P.S. I hope some has benefited from my previous messages(5/13/2001) # 5704 on RTsite 
when I posted 5/22/2000 as a turning point for Nasdaq(it was actual turn) and recent 
message on WITS site (6/17/2001) # 456 for projected turning point on 6/19/2001 -/+ 1 
d(6/20/2001 was the actual low) 
leonoliver@yahoo.com 
Gann said to watch for turning point on the 98th day (2 x 7squared). 
6/29 @98 solar degree is 99 days from 3/22.

--- PAGE 48 of 72 ---

6/15 to 6/29 = 14 c. days
= 5/22 to 6/5
5/22 @61 solar x phi = 98.6 solar degree 6/29
--- In gannsghost@y..., leonoliver@y... wrote:
> Gann said to watch for turning point on the 98th day (2 x 7squared).
> 6/29 @98 solar degree is 99 days from 3/22.
> 
> 6/15 to 6/29 = 14 c. days
> = 5/22 to 6/5
Excellent follow up, I never thought of it.
Haytham
bruce.larson@ukgateway.net
> Some other evidence of 6/29/2001 turning point:
> 
> 5/24/2000 L to 9/1/2000 H is 70 trading days X 4(natural square of 
2) = 280 add this to 5/24/2000 will equal 6/29/2001
> 3/7/2001 to 4/4/2001 L =20 trading days X4=80 added to 3/7/2001 = 
6/29/2001
This is the 100 trading day cycle everyone's following. 5/24/00L + 
100 = 9/1/00H + 100 = 12/10/00H + 100 = 3/20/01L-2 + 100 = 6/28/01.
> Hi,
> Could you tell me the rules for selecting the
> turning dates and the numbers used to compute
> your time projections.
> 
> Thank you,
> Seymour Schatz
Hello Seymour,
The rules are related to the seven principles of Hermes(Master of Masters), Gann(the 
great master of the this century taking Galileo work to another dimension) and Natural 
laws. Price and Time are expected to meet(balance) by the date mentioned(+/- 1 trading 
day).
6/15 to 6/29 = 14 c. days 
= 5/22 to 6/5 
5/22 @61 solar x phi = 98.6 solar degree 6/29 
--- In gannsghost@y..., leonoliver@y... wrote: 
> Gann said to watch for turning point on the 98th day (2 x 7squared). 
> 6/29 @98 solar degree is 99 days from 3/22. 
> 
> 6/15 to 6/29 = 14 c. days 
> = 5/22 to 6/5 
Excellent follow up, I never thought of it. 
Haytham 
bruce.larson@ukegateway.net 
> Some other evidence of 6/29/2001 turning point: 
> 
> 5/24/2000 L to 9/1/2000 H is 70 trading days X 4(natural square of 
2) = 280 add this to 5/24/2000 will equal 6/29/2001 
> 3/7/2001 to 4/4/2001 L =20 trading days X4=80 added to 3/7/2001 = 
6/29/2001 
This is the 100 trading day cycle everyone's following. 5/24/00L + 
100 = 9/1/00H + 100 = 12/10/00H + 100 = 3/20/01L-2 + 100 = 6/28/01. 
> Hi, 
> Could you tell me the rules for selecting the 
> turning dates and the numbers used to compute 
> your time projections. 
> 
> Thank you, 
> Seymour Schatz 
Hello Seymour, 
The rules are related to the seven principles of Hermes(Master of Masters), Gann(the 
great master of the this century taking Galileo work to another dimension) and Natural 
laws. Price and Time are expected to meet(balance) by the date mentioned(+/- | trading 
day).

--- PAGE 49 of 72 ---

Also it is the natural square of 10 from major low for nasdaq on 4/4/2001 and end of 
measured move down.
Regards,
Haytham
Now you know why. According to Gann it is sort of Rosa Christian superstition. 
According to Vedas it is moon trine exaltation cycle to the stars. If you 
add planetary aspects to this cycle, you get complete picture.
 
Gregory.
This business of subtracting 225 after multiplying the square root by 180 seems to cause 
endless confusion.
But there is really nothing mysterious about it.
The point of subtracting 225 is to put the squares of even numbers on the 135 degree 
angle and the squares of odd numbers on the 315 degree angle. If you didn't subtract 225 
you would find, for example, that the number 16 (square of 4) would be on the 0 degree 
angle (instead of on the 135 where it belongs).  Similarly, if you don't subtract 225 you 
will put the number 25 (square of 5) on the 180 degree angle 
(instead of on the 315 where it belongs.
I've never had any success interpreting the numbers in the square of 9 as percentages.
Carl
Guys,
I need your help with some simple maths.
Michael Jenkins in one of his book; say's that when drawing the following angles on a 
chart, you are infact drawing the divisions of price and not angles:
90/2=45
45/2=22.5
22.5/2=5.625
He says that half of a 45 Degree angle is an angle of 26.75 degrees 
and not 22.5 degrees.
Also it is the natural square of 10 from major low for nasdaq on 4/4/2001 and end of 
measured move down. 
Regards, 
Haytham 
Now you know why. According to Gann it is sort of Rosa Christian superstition. 
According to Vedas it is moon trine exaltation cycle to the stars. If you 
add planetary aspects to this cycle, you get complete picture. 
Gregory. 
This business of subtracting 225 after multiplying the square root by 180 seems to cause 
endless confusion. 
But there is really nothing mysterious about it. 
The point of subtracting 225 is to put the squares of even numbers on the 135 degree 
angle and the squares of odd numbers on the 315 degree angle. If you didn't subtract 225 
you would find, for example, that the number 16 (square of 4) would be on the 0 degree 
angle (instead of on the 135 where it belongs). Similarly, if you don't subtract 225 you 
will put the number 25 (square of 5) on the 180 degree angle 
(instead of on the 315 where it belongs. 
I've never had any success interpreting the numbers in the square of 9 as percentages. 
Carl 
Guys, 
I need your help with some simple maths. 
Michael Jenkins in one of his book; say's that when drawing the following angles on a 
chart, you are infact drawing the divisions of price and not angles: 
90/2=45 
45/2=22.5 
22.5/2=5.625 
He says that half of a 45 Degree angle is an angle of 26.75 degrees 
and not 22.5 degrees.

--- PAGE 50 of 72 ---

In fact Gann protractors have the 26.75* line.
Can anyone explain the rational behind this in laymans terms please.
Ron
This is just a matter of high school trigonometry.
Gann trend lines are drawn by choosing a starting point and then 
moving to the right by N units of time and then up(or down) by K units of price.
Let's call the number N the "run" and the number K the "rise" (or the "fall" if the 
trendline slopes downward).
In Gann theory we usually have the ratio of the "rise" to the "run", 
i.e. the number K/N, as some power of two. 
For example, a trendline that slopes upward might have the "run" be 1 and the "rise" be 
equal to 2. This is what I call a 2 x 1 angle. It slopes upward 2 units of price for every 1 
unit of time. So the number K/N in this example is 2. 
As another example, the "run" is 2 and the "rise" is 1. This is a trendline that is the Gann 
1 x 2 angle, it slopes upward 1 unit of price for every 2 units of time. So the number K/N 
in this example is 1/2. 
Now suppose we want to measure these trendlines by the trigonometric 
angles they make with respect to any horizontal line. In other words, 
we want to measure them with a protractor.
What trigonometric angle will the protractor measure?
From high school trigonometry we know that the TANGENT of any angle 
is the given by the "rise" divided by the "run" of the sloping line 
defined by the angle. (Here the TANGENT is a mathematical function 
which you can find on your calculator by looking for the TAN key.)
So we know that our number K/N is the TANGENT of an unknown angle. 
To find this unknown angle look for the ARCTAN or TAN^(-1) key on 
your calculator. Then key in our number K/N and then press the ARCTAN 
key. The answer will be in degrees. So you will find that for the 1 
x 2 angle, K/N = 1/2 and ARCTAN (1/2)is 26.565 degrees as desired.
Carl
In fact Gann protractors have the 26.75* line. 
Can anyone explain the rational behind this in laymans terms please. 
Ron 
This is just a matter of high school trigonometry. 
Gann trend lines are drawn by choosing a starting point and then 
moving to the right by N units of time and then up(or down) by K units of price. 
Let's call the number N the "run" and the number K the "rise" (or the "fall" if the 
trendline slopes downward). 
In Gann theory we usually have the ratio of the "rise" to the "run", 
i.e. the number K/N, as some power of two. 
For example, a trendline that slopes upward might have the "run" be | and the "rise" be 
equal to 2. This is what I call a 2 x | angle. It slopes upward 2 units of price for every 1 
unit of time. So the number K/N in this example is 2. 
As another example, the "run" is 2 and the "rise" is 1. This is a trendline that is the Gann 
1 x 2 angle, it slopes upward 1 unit of price for every 2 units of time. So the number K/N 
in this example is 1/2. 
Now suppose we want to measure these trendlines by the trigonometric 
angles they make with respect to any horizontal line. In other words, 
we want to measure them with a protractor. 
What trigonometric angle will the protractor measure? 
From high school trigonometry we know that the TANGENT of any angle 
is the given by the "rise" divided by the "run" of the sloping line 
defined by the angle. (Here the TANGENT is a mathematical function 
which you can find on your calculator by looking for the TAN key.) 
So we know that our number K/N is the TANGENT of an unknown angle. 
To find this unknown angle look for the ARCTAN or TAN“(-1) key on 
your calculator. Then key in our number K/N and then press the ARCTAN 
key. The answer will be in degrees. So you will find that for the | 
x 2 angle, K/N = 1/2 and ARCTAN (1/2)is 26.565 degrees as desired. 
Carl

--- PAGE 51 of 72 ---

Hi Ron,
 
Hope you don't mind my butting in here but... you can find the answer to that question in 
PD Osupensky's In Search of the Miraculous (which is on Gann's reading list) Chapter 7 
where we talks about Octaves.  One octave up is x2 one octave down is X1/2 etc.
 
Also here is a little memory tool Mrs. Burns taught me years ago:
 
Oscar => Opposite
-------------------------------       SIN 
Has    => Hypotenuse
 
A        => Adjacent
-------------------------------       COSINE
Hat     => Hypotenuse
 
On      => Opposite
-------------------------------       TANGENT
Always => Adjacent
 
-Rick
https://www.aussiestockforums.com/threads/gann-square-of-nine.4129/page-2
Hi folks,
..... very busy right now, but while dinner is cooking, let's
look at the contruction of Gann's Sq09, so that everybody
is starting on the same page .....  
Firstly, Sq09 is simply a primitive square root calculator, if
we start with 1 in the centre and use a 9 x 9 = 81 square
Yes, we can use significant highs or lows, like 13032003 low, 
but in that way, we should be using it a little differently, as
we must also consider some longer time cycles, in the
equation.
Most of the commercial Gann Wheels (Sq09) are not really
Hi Ron, 
Hope you don't mind my butting in here but... you can find the answer to that question in 
PD Osupensky's In Search of the Miraculous (which is on Gann's reading list) Chapter 7 
where we talks about Octaves. One octave up is x2 one octave down is X1/2 etc. 
Also here is a little memory tool Mrs. Burns taught me years ago: 
Oscar => Opposite 
a ------------------------------ 
SIN 
Has => Hypotenuse 
A 
=> Adjacent 
~------------------------------ 
COSINE 
Hat 
=> Hypotenuse 
On 
=> Opposite 
w------------------------------ 
TANGENT 
Always => Adjacent 
-Rick 
https://www.aussiestockforums.com/threads/gann-square-of-nine.4129/page-2 
Hi folks, 
bees very busy right now, but while dinner is cooking, let's 
look at the contruction of Gann's Sq09, so that everybody 
is starting on the same page. ..... 
Firstly, SqO9 is simply a primitive square root calculator, if 
we start with 1 in the centre and use a 9 x 9 = 81 Square 
Yes, we can use significant highs or lows, like 13032003 low, 
but in that way, we should be using it a little differently, as 
we must also consider some longer time cycles, in the 
equation. 
Most of the commercial Gann Wheels (Sq09) are not really

--- PAGE 52 of 72 ---

complete, in the sense that he used many different overlays
to align price, time and geometry.
Technically, many Sq09 charts are inverted in their 
construction, but it does not matter, until it comes time
to marry price and time together, with the planetary
overlays.
From 1, the count should be to the left for 2, then in
anti-clockwise mode for the rest of the count to 81.
Now, if you look at the chart, there should be a vertical and 
horizontal lines across the centre, this is the Cardinal Cross 
and represents one season of solar movement or 90 degrees 
on a 360 degree dial.
That is, Gann's trading year started on March equinox,
represented by the horizontal axis and marked on the
left-hand side of your square ..... from there, every
90 degrees of solar movement finds a solstice or an
equinox, on the Cardinal Cross.
Next, we have another cross shown across the diagonals
of the square chart, known as the Fixed Cross.
Both crosses serve as support and resistance for the price
as it approaches each level, targetted by the crosses.
This also divides the circle into 8 x 45 degree segments,
just as Gann divided the RANGE of market moves by 8
to establish common support and resistance levels, as 
used in Murrey Maths, etc.
=====
complete, in the sense that he used many different overlays 
to align price, time and geometry. 
Technically, many SqQO9 charts are inverted in their 
construction, but it does not matter, until it comes time 
to marry price and time together, with the planetary 
overlays. 
From 1, the count should be to the left for 2, then in 
anti-clockwise mode for the rest of the count to 81. 
Now, if you look at the chart, there should be a vertical and 
horizontal lines across the centre, this is the Cardinal Cross 
and represents one season of solar movement or 90 degrees 
on a 360 degree dial. 
That is, Gann's trading year started on March equinox, 
represented by the horizontal axis and marked on the 
left-hand side of your square ..... from there, every 
90 degrees of solar movement finds a solstice or an 
equinox, on the Cardinal Cross. 
Next, we have another cross shown across the diagonals 
of the square chart, known as the Fixed Cross. 
Both crosses serve as support and resistance for the price 
as it approaches each level, targetted by the crosses. 
This also divides the circle into 8 x 45 degree segments, 
just as Gann divided the RANGE of market moves by 8 
to establish common support and resistance levels, as 
used in Murrey Maths, etc.

--- PAGE 53 of 72 ---

So, the daily increment commonly used is a step of 1 ... that
represents markets that move about one cent or dollar per 
day, like corn and oats (1 cent) or gold (1 dollar),for 
example.
For markets that move more than 1 unit/day, we adjust the
step-up to the appropriate value ..... you can find a list of
these for many commodity markets, in some Gann-related
books.
So, all that is fine, if we simply want to use a 360 degree
dial to represent a trading year and measure the time by
movement of the Sun.
=====
Two more overlays, that are important for the wheel,
feature a square and a triangle, pointing to the degrees
on the outer edge of the wheel ..... these are used to 
determine 60/120 degree moves (trine), with the triangle
and 45/90 degrees moves (square), with the square overlay.
So, by having the overlays pivot around a common centre,
we can adjust each one to align with the planets marked
on the outer degree wheel, according to their current 
positions, daily.
On some wheels, an additional overlay will show the calendar
for an entire year.
-----
When planets reach critical points on the dial, on the same 
day as price hits support or resistance on the square, then a 
market reversal may be imminent.
So, the daily increment commonly used is a step of 1 ... that 
represents markets that move about one cent or dollar per 
day, like corn and oats (1 cent) or gold (1 dollar),for 
example. 
For markets that move more than 1 unit/day, we adjust the 
step-up to the appropriate value ..... you can find a list of 
these for many commodity markets, in some Gann-related 
books. 
So, all that is fine, if we simply want to use a 360 degree 
dial to represent a trading year and measure the time by 
movement of the Sun. 
Two more overlays, that are important for the wheel, 
feature a square and a triangle, pointing to the degrees 
on the outer edge of the wheel ..... these are used to 
determine 60/120 degree moves (trine), with the triangle 
and 45/90 degrees moves (square), with the square overlay. 
So, by having the overlays pivot around a common centre, 
we can adjust each one to align with the planets marked 
on the outer degree wheel, according to their current 
positions, daily. 
On some wheels, an additional overlay will show the calendar 
for an entire year. 
When planets reach critical points on the dial, on the same 
day as price hits support or resistance on the square, then a 
market reversal may be imminent.

--- PAGE 54 of 72 ---

-----
Another use for the wheel is to gauge the price, as it 
approaches "natural squares", within the number count,
on the wheel. ie 8 x 8 = 64.
-----
Most markets will be easy to read on the wheel, if the 
correct "run-rate" is used ... ie x units/ day.
-----
Truth is, Gann tried a similar approach, using many different
geometric shapes, like hexagon and decagon charts as well.
-----
For more reading about Magic Squares, just google it or
refer to Abra Mehlin's works, along with several others,
like Granville Cooley, W.S. Andrews, Hyerczyck, etc .....
.....there's hundreds of different configurations, really.
-----
If you wish to delve further into the ancient history, then
read up on the Pythagorean Numbers and the Tetractys .....
..... absolutely fascinating stuff from the ancient world
of Socrates, Plato and the esoteric schools of Pythagoras.
-----
Suffice to say, most traders only use Sq09 as a mechanical
Another use for the wheel is to gauge the price, as it 
approaches "natural squares", within the number count, 
on the wheel. ie 8 x 8 = 64. 
Most markets will be easy to read on the wheel, if the 
correct "run-rate" is used ... ie x units/ day. 
Truth is, Gann tried a similar approach, using many different 
geometric shapes, like hexagon and decagon charts as well. 
For more reading about Magic Squares, just google it or 
refer to Abra Mehlin's works, along with several others, 
like Granville Cooley, W.S. Andrews, Hyerczyck, etc ..... 
bees there's hundreds of different configurations, really. 
If you wish to delve further into the ancient history, then 
read up on the Pythagorean Numbers and the Tetractys ..... 
bene absolutely fascinating stuff from the ancient world 
of Socrates, Plato and the esoteric schools of Pythagoras. 
Suffice to say, most traders only use SqO9 as a mechanical

--- PAGE 55 of 72 ---

method of determining price against solar time of one
degree per day (roughly speaking).
However, by using different overlays for the inner and outer
planets, we can easily appreciate how price movements of a
particular stock, align with one particular planet, on Gann's 
Sq09 Wheel.
For example:
TIM = Saturn's movements.
AZZ = Neptune's movements
There's lots more too, but that's enough before dinner ... lol
happy days
yogi
..... oooops, missed out these bits .....  
By using the triangle and square on the planetary overlay,
we can optimize the planetary aspects, against the price
movements underneath, as well. 
-----
Left-hand side of the chart at March equinox, also marks
zero degrees on the 360 degree dial and East on the zodiac,
for mundane purposes.
(See Sepharial's Cosmic Symbolism and “Geodetic 
Equivalents").
method of determining price against solar time of one 
degree per day (roughly speaking). 
However, by using different overlays for the inner and outer 
planets, we can easily appreciate how price movements of a 
particular stock, align with one particular planet, on Gann's 
Sq09 Wheel. 
For example: 
TIM = Saturn's movements. 
AZZ = Neptune's movements 
There's lots more too, but that's enough before dinner ... lol 
happy days 
yogi 
By using the triangle and square on the planetary overlay, 
we can optimize the planetary aspects, against the price 
movements underneath, as well. 
Left-hand side of the chart at March equinox, also marks 
zero degrees on the 360 degree dial and East on the zodiac, 
for mundane purposes. 
(See Sepharial's Cosmic Symbolism and “Geodetic 
Equivalents").

--- PAGE 56 of 72 ---

happy days
yogi
Plotting the geometric positions of the plannets as they 
rotate through the wheel allows us to pinpoint where an 
opposition or grand trine alignment will occur at a particular 
time in the future . Gann talked about live angles which is 
where the longitude of the major plannets came into square 
trine or opposition points on the 360 deg wheel . Certain 
major opposition points could have a higher electromagnetic 
influence as compared to smaller scale plannets in opposition
so the question of individual correlation is a difficult one to 
estimate . A commodity might respond more consistently and
have larger scale long lasting movements when say two of 
the major plannets align 180 deg . If we break this down 
further how can I establish ( calculate ) the timing componet 
( approx ) when these two majors will be in 180 opposition . 
The two plannets could move into opposition on the 1st jan 
2005 and as the opposition continues these two plannets 
might not reach exact opposition till 15th jan and then fade 
out of opposition on the 20th . so there is a timing window 
which is in direct proportion to the scale and speed of the 
plannets orbit . 
Using this long time window to position into any given 
instrument seems like a difficult task and as the plannetary 
tables are accurate we have no problem there but accurately 
co ordinating this imformation to position yourself at a low or
a cntr trend move has me a bit perplexed . 
In an idealised situation we might find that our commodity 
exhausts into low and turns trend on the 15th jan ( 180 deg 
point ) which would provide us with a clear indication to 
position long . 
happy days 
yogi 
Plotting the geometric positions of the plannets as they 
rotate through the wheel allows us to pinpoint where an 
opposition or grand trine alignment will occur at a particular 
time in the future . Gann talked about live angles which is 
where the longitude of the major plannets came into square 
trine or opposition points on the 360 deg wheel . Certain 
major opposition points could have a higher electromagnetic 
influence as compared to smaller scale plannets in opposition 
so the question of individual correlation is a difficult one to 
estimate . 
A commodity might respond more consistently and 
have larger scale long lasting movements when say two of 
the major plannets align 180 deg . If we break this down 
further how can I establish ( calculate ) the timing componet 
( approx ) when these two majors will be in 180 opposition . 
The two plannets could move into opposition on the 1st jan 
2005 and as the opposition continues these two plannets 
might not reach exact opposition till 15th jan and then fade 
out of opposition on the 20th . so there is a timing window 
which is in direct proportion to the scale and speed of the 
plannets orbit . 
Using this long time window to position into any given 
instrument seems like a difficult task and as the plannetary 
tables are accurate we have no problem there but accurately 
co ordinating this imformation to position yourself at a low or 
a cntr trend move has me a bit perplexed . 
In an idealised situation we might find that our commodity 
exhausts into low and turns trend on the 15th jan ( 180 deg 
point ) which would provide us with a clear indication to 
position long .

--- PAGE 57 of 72 ---

This cycle could also be confirmed further by two minor 
plannets moving into aspect ( merc mars 126 deg 
respectively ) . 
But what happens if the trend continues down into the 20th 
day which is at the tail end of the opposition and then starts 
to turn up as the cycle fades and loses its influence . I can 
appreciate that the major astronomical alignments do take 
time to setup and move into exact alignment but from a 
timing perspective there is a large window and the trend 
could turn at any point within the cycle . there are wheels 
within wheels and within this primary opposition a faster 
moving planet might intersect the 180 deg point or a cluster 
of plannets might move into conjunction which could be the 
trigger and turn trend mid way or 3/4 through the cycle . 
I need to spend alot of time with this stuff , not esoteric 
dribble , it is too open to interpretation and unscientific . on 
the other hand smaller oppositions can take place within the 
wheel involving smaller planets , I guess it is all relative , you
might have the moon square jupiter and this cycle might only
run 2 days with excat opposition point occuring and fading 
rather quickly compared to our last example . 
It is very difficult to establish a precise link between the 
geometrical position of the planets and their directional 
influence on price . Each instrument has a set of unique 
properties that defines its molecular makeup . Lets take NAB 
as an example . its incorporation date is 2361893 . we can 
see the exact planetary degree , house and astrological 
ascendant on that date .
These are the signature properties that make up NAB . Gann 
would create a horoscope from this imformation and we see 
his reference in TTTA where he says " I am unable to make 
up a presidential forecast because I do not have the full 
This cycle could also be confirmed further by two minor 
plannets moving into aspect ( merc mars 126 deg 
respectively ). 
But what happens if the trend continues down into the 20th 
day which is at the tail end of the opposition and then starts 
to turn up as the cycle fades and loses its influence . I can 
appreciate that the major astronomical alignments do take 
time to setup and move into exact alignment but from a 
timing perspective there is a large window and the trend 
could turn at any point within the cycle . there are wheels 
within wheels and within this primary opposition a faster 
moving planet might intersect the 180 deg point or a cluster 
of plannets might move into conjunction which could be the 
trigger and turn trend mid way or 3/4 through the cycle . 
I need to spend alot of time with this stuff , not esoteric 
dribble , it is too open to interpretation and unscientific . on 
the other hand smaller oppositions can take place within the 
wheel involving smaller planets , I guess it is all relative , you 
might have the moon square jupiter and this cycle might only 
run 2 days with excat opposition point occuring and fading 
rather quickly compared to our last example . 
It is very difficult to establish a precise link between the 
geometrical position of the planets and their directional 
influence on price . Each instrument has a set of unique 
properties that defines its molecular makeup . Lets take NAB 
as an example . its incorporation date is 2361893 . we can 
see the exact planetary degree , house and astrological 
ascendant on that date . 
These are the signature properties that make up NAB . Gann 
would create a horoscope from this imformation and we see 
his reference in TTTA where he says " I am unable to make 
up a presidential forecast because I do not have the full

--- PAGE 58 of 72 ---

names of the candidates " this has a higher meaning and 
could possibly suggest that he was using Pythagorean 
Numerology to code the names down to single digit ( Tokyo J
) so I think he was looking for a symmetrical balance 
between the astrological data , the name of the instrument 
and how this imformation could be used and integrated 
alongside his planetary analysis . It is easy to reverse 
engineer cause and suggest that a major opposition between 
saturn and uranus will turn trend on all gold stocks because 
uranus is the primary controller of gold and is located 20 deg
45 min into taurus . This is a discretionary form of astro 
economics as it doesnt scientifically relate planetary 
longitude to the signature properties of that instrument . 
Markets expand and contract at different points on the 
astrological grid . A 90 deg square between saturn uranus 
jupiter neptune is a major planetary event and perhaps the 
increased magnetic frequency between these planets might 
affect a broad range of instruments across several 
international mkts -/+ 1 due to the magnitude of the 
configuration . 
Integration of fixed and astrological cycles is an interesting 
area to look at . it setups a a range of possibilities but then 
again I guess we are only able to decode a segment of what 
is driving the mkt at any given point
Any help is appreciated 
Will talk tonight Yogi .
1632007 : Was this a a significant planetary event ? 
looking at the zodiac wheel : 
mars and jupiter forming an opposition , this cycle started 
1182007 with the strongest 180 deg opposition point on 
2282007 and from there the cycle faded out . 
names of the candidates " this has a higher meaning and 
could possibly suggest that he was using Pythagorean 
Numerology to code the names down to single digit ( Tokyo J 
) so I think he was looking for a symmetrical balance 
between the astrological data , the name of the instrument 
and how this imformation could be used and integrated 
alongside his planetary analysis . It is easy to reverse 
engineer cause and suggest that a major opposition between 
saturn and uranus will turn trend on all gold stocks because 
uranus is the primary controller of gold and is located 20 deg 
45 min into taurus . This is a discretionary form of astro 
economics as it doesnt scientifically relate planetary 
longitude to the signature properties of that instrument . 
Markets expand and contract at different points on the 
astrological grid 
. 
A 90 deg square between saturn uranus 
jupiter neptune is a major planetary event and perhaps the 
increased magnetic frequency between these planets might 
affect a broad range of instruments across several 
international mkts -/+ 1 due to the magnitude of the 
configuration . 
Integration of fixed and astrological cycles is an interesting 
area to look at . it setups a a range of possibilities but then 
again I guess we are only able to decode a segment of what 
is driving the mkt at any given point 
Any help is appreciated 
Will talk tonight Yogi . 
1632007 : Was this a a significant planetary event ? 
looking at the zodiac wheel : 
mars and jupiter forming an opposition , this cycle started 
1182007 with the strongest 180 deg opposition point on 
2282007 and from there the cycle faded out .

--- PAGE 59 of 72 ---

The close conjunction between mercury 144 deg venus 145 
deg and saturn 147 deg trine pluto looks interesting . these 
three conjunctions are in leo and in some situations market 
major mkt lows seem to occur when three or more planets 
are in conjunction under one sign , this cant be statistically 
proven of course but it is just a general observation from 
what I have studied so far . 
The major low came out on the 16th so I dont think we could
really draw a precise correlation between the point of the low
and the exact degree between the opposition as they were 
several days apart , the strongest point of the opposition was
the 22nd and the low came in on the 16th so from a timing 
perspective it would be hard to to say that the opposition 
was the primary trigger to turn trend up due to the timing 
discrepancy . 
Jupiter was in Sagitarius at this point which is the sign 
equivalent but this line of information is sketchy and doesn't 
really provide us with any tangible information to base our 
decision on . 
Conjunction trine Pluto does look strong with the three 
planets in close aspect . breaking this down further we can 
see the first two planets to form conjunction were Venus and 
saturn on 1382007 and then our fast moving planet mercury 
88 days came into alignment with venus and saturn on the 
16th which marked the low which might indicate that when a 
fast plannet comes into alignment with two larger plannets of
the same degree it could serve as a directional trigger on 
certain stocks , I dont know , this has been discussed on may
beans so there might be something there ?
I guess there are several ways to use this information and 
project it fwd 
The close conjunction between mercury 144 deg venus 145 
deg and saturn 147 deg trine pluto looks interesting . these 
three conjunctions are in leo and in some situations market 
major mkt lows seem to occur when three or more planets 
are in conjunction under one sign , this cant be statistically 
proven of course but it is just a general observation from 
what I have studied so far . 
The major low came out on the 16th so I dont think we could 
really draw a precise correlation between the point of the low 
and the exact degree between the opposition as they were 
several days apart , the strongest point of the opposition was 
the 22nd and the low came in on the 16th so from a timing 
perspective it would be hard to to say that the opposition 
was the primary trigger to turn trend up due to the timing 
discrepancy . 
Jupiter was in Sagitarius at this point which is the sign 
equivalent but this line of information is sketchy and doesn't 
really provide us with any tangible information to base our 
decision on. 
Conjunction trine Pluto does look strong with the three 
planets in close aspect . breaking this down further we can 
see the first two planets to form conjunction were Venus and 
saturn on 1382007 and then our fast moving planet mercury 
88 days came into alignment with venus and saturn on the 
16th which marked the low which might indicate that when a 
fast plannet comes into alignment with two larger plannets of 
the same degree it could serve as a directional trigger on 
certain stocks , I dont know , this has been discussed on may 
beans so there might be something there ? 
I guess there are several ways to use this information and 
project it fwd

--- PAGE 60 of 72 ---

Gann says to mark your major lows in red and your major 
highs in green and then move fwd 30 45 60 90 120 deg . I 
have just realised what he was doing and it is not using 
geometric time and price scaling . 
Merc 144.66 + 30 deg = 174.66 sept 1st 
Venus 145.65 + 30 deg = 175.65 nov 4th 
Jupiter 250.07 + 30 deg = 280.07 feb 1st 
will pick this up next week .
Gazzelle
Your request for a chart is appreciated although it is quite 
difficult to post one as I work between two mediums . The 
trading platform I am using is Gann Trader which is quite a 
cumbersome old programme that works on a DOS basis and 
doesnt have the capabilities or functions to take a screen 
shot and save it to a file . I have unsuccessfully tried to do 
this on several occasions and unlike metastock it will not 
allow it but that doesnt matter as I can provide a detailed 
commentary on each trade or forecast that I am preparing . 
Lets not allow small trivial technicalities to interfere or 
detract from our analysis and besides I dont really like to 
post my charts and calculators within the public domain . My 
decision to remain private in my research and calculations is 
not through that of ignorance but some of techniques and 
principles that I have discovered over years of patient and 
meticulous study have been deservedly achieved and even 
though some of methods are consistently accurate in 
prognosticating market turning points well in advance of the 
event taking place , sometimes in certain instances the 
calculations and alignment of time cycles into a projected 
date will not work out in the expected manner which is why I
have a well structured trading plan laid out in advance that 
Gann says to mark your major lows in red and your major 
highs in green and then move fwd 30 45 60 90 120 deg . I 
have just realised what he was doing and it is not using 
geometric time and price scaling . 
Merc 144.66 + 30 deg = 174.66 sept 1st 
Venus 145.65 + 30 deg = 175.65 nov 4th 
Jupiter 250.07 + 30 deg = 280.07 feb 1st 
will pick this up next week . 
Gazzelle 
Your request for a chart is appreciated although it is quite 
difficult to post one as I work between two mediums . The 
trading platform I am using is Gann Trader which is quite a 
cumbersome old programme that works on a DOS basis and 
doesnt have the capabilities or functions to take a screen 
shot and Save it to a file 
. 
I have unsuccessfully tried to do 
this on several occasions and unlike metastock it will not 
allow it but that doesnt matter as I can provide a detailed 
commentary on each trade or forecast that I am preparing . 
Lets not allow small trivial technicalities to interfere or 
detract from our analysis and besides I dont really like to 
post my charts and calculators within the public domain . My 
decision to remain private in my research and calculations is 
not through that of ignorance but some of techniques and 
principles that I have discovered over years of patient and 
meticulous study have been deservedly achieved and even 
though some of methods are consistently accurate in 
prognosticating market turning points well in advance of the 
event taking place , sometimes in certain instances the 
calculations and alignment of time cycles into a projected 
date will not work out in the expected manner which is why I 
have a well structured trading plan laid out in advance that

--- PAGE 61 of 72 ---

estimates projected risk on each trade and how I can exit 
that position if the market doesnt conform to my measures 
and principles . perhaps this is due to gaps within my 
knowledge base or lack of understanding certain sections , 
but sometimes I just sit back and wonder how Gann was able
to consistently prognosticate nearly every turning point 
within the wheat or beans market before that physical 
movement actually took place with such a high degree of 
accuracy .
Gann said that all market movements occur as the result of a
Natural Law and the Cause exists long before the Effect takes
place and if we can identify and understand how those forces
will exert themselves upon the market or a particular 
commodity then we can begin to build a conceptual 
framework into how these deterministic laws prevail and 
exert themselves upon certain instruments at a particular 
point in time . If we have the appropriate knowledge and 
information before us then we should be able to predict or 
estimate how this force or field of electromagnetic energy will
impact the instrument under observation and whether it will 
have a positive or negative impact .
Being able to consistently predict accurate turning points 
within the soybean market or The FTSE is really only one part
of the equation . Lets look at the Top on Lumber 27th 
December 316 1/4 . On this date certain Timing influences 
moved into directional alignment and cumulatively exerted 
their line of influence on the Lumber Market so for an astute 
observer who is trained in the principles of Natural Law he 
was able to interpret this information and apply it to the 
movement in Lumber but these Laws are universal and can 
mostly be applied to almost anything , but picking the Top is 
only a small component within the overall trade . how strong 
is the influence and how far in time can we expect this 
estimates projected risk on each trade and how I can exit 
that position if the market doesnt conform to my measures 
and principles . perhaps this is due to gaps within my 
knowledge base or lack of understanding certain sections , 
but sometimes I just sit back and wonder how Gann was able 
to consistently prognosticate nearly every turning point 
within the wheat or beans market before that physical 
movement actually took place with such a high degree of 
accuracy . 
Gann said that all market movements occur as the result of a 
Natural Law and the Cause exists long before the Effect takes 
place and if we can identify and understand how those forces 
will exert themselves upon the market or a particular 
commodity then we can begin to build a conceptual 
framework into how these deterministic laws prevail and 
exert themselves upon certain instruments at a particular 
point in time . If we have the appropriate knowledge and 
information before us then we should be able to predict or 
estimate how this force or field of electromagnetic energy will 
impact the instrument under observation and whether it will 
have a positive or negative impact . 
Being able to consistently predict accurate turning points 
within the soybean market or The FTSE is really only one part 
of the equation . Lets look at the Top on Lumber 27th 
December 316 1/4 . On this date certain Timing influences 
moved into directional alignment and cumulatively exerted 
their line of influence on the Lumber Market so for an astute 
observer who is trained in the principles of Natural Law he 
was able to interpret this information and apply it to the 
movement in Lumber but these Laws are universal and can 
mostly be applied to almost anything , but picking the Top is 
only a small component within the overall trade . how strong 
is the influence and how far in time can we expect this

--- PAGE 62 of 72 ---

movement to decline before we can exit our position . How 
far in price will the movement carry down . and how much of 
this movement can we realistically expect to capture . My 
initial estimate indicates that price could trade down into the 
11th January before a mild upward swing which would 
provide us with a 14 - 15 day campaign but at this point in 
time I dont have the knowledge or skills to estimate a price . 
90 degrees = 298 180 degrees = 281 270 degrees = 265 
and 360 degrees = 249 as potential estimates . From there 
you could project the Geometric Angles and note them as 
support points . I am also looking at a Top in the FTSE on the
31st December 2010 .
Robert Gordon
Nice cat Ruby . My friend has one identical called Bubbles 
and he is approaching 17 years old . I suppose in the eye of 
the practitioner all analytical techniques are credible and as 
Tech has pointed out it is very important to keep your 
approach as simple as possible and ensure that you have a 
comprehensive and intuitive understanding of the techniques 
or methods that you employ and how they perform over a 
range of market conditions . Whether you are looking to 
trade counter trend reactions within an established long pull 
trend utilizing the retracement levels and timing projections 
of RN Elliot as your primary trading mechanism , at least you
are approaching the market with a well constructed plan that
would incorporate risk assesment on the given trade , what 
stage of the market are looking to trade and how far can you
expect price to move against you before you activate your 
stops and or if you have a re entry strategy . 
I think it is very important to differentiate and recognise the 
difference between a forward point in time that is projected 
on a purely arbitrary basis . What I mean by this is just 
movement to decline before we can exit our position 
. How 
far in price will the movement carry down . and how much of 
this movement can we realistically expect to capture . My 
initial estimate indicates that price could trade down into the 
11th January before a mild upward swing which would 
provide us with a 14 - 15 day campaign but at this point in 
time I dont have the knowledge or skills to estimate a price . 
90 degrees = 298 180 degrees = 281 270 degrees = 265 
and 360 degrees = 249 as potential estimates . From there 
you could project the Geometric Angles and note them as 
Support points . 
Iam also looking at a Top in the FTSE on the 
31st December 2010. 
Robert Gordon 
Nice cat Ruby . My friend has one identical called Bubbles 
and he is approaching 17 years old . I suppose in the eye of 
the practitioner all analytical techniques are credible and as 
Tech has pointed out it is very important to keep your 
approach as simple as possible and ensure that you have a 
comprehensive and intuitive understanding of the techniques 
or methods that you employ and how they perform over a 
range of market conditions . Whether you are looking to 
trade counter trend reactions within an established long pull 
trend utilizing the retracement levels and timing projections 
of RN Elliot as your primary trading mechanism , at least you 
are approaching the market with a well constructed plan that 
would incorporate risk assesment on the given trade , what 
stage of the market are looking to trade and how far can you 
expect price to move against you before you activate your 
stops and or if you have a re entry strategy . 
I think it is very important to differentiate and recognise the 
difference between a forward point in time that is projected 
on a purely arbitrary basis 
. What I mean by this is just

--- PAGE 63 of 72 ---

beacause a stock has a historical tendency to turn trend 
every 30 days doesnt neccesarily mean that it is an absolute 
timing mechanism because you are really only observing the 
effect and therefore you are only seeing one side of the 
equation without developing an understanding into the 
underlying principles and force structures that actually cause 
the market to change trend at that given point in time .
This is what Gann was doing , he was studying and 
projecting forward timing points in wheat or corn based on a 
detailed examination of causes , the cause exists long before 
the effect takes place and it is just as easy to go forward 30 
days or one year and look for symetrical alignment between 
timing and price co ordinates but gee it is hard . it is akin to 
looking at the face of a watch and you can see the minute 
and hourly hands and the seconds ticking past but as the 
watch is a closed mechanism you cant see or understand the 
timing mechanics unless you take the case off the watch and 
peer inside and then we can truly identify and understand the
magnetics or revoultions that really create time . 
Just because Corn is 90 days from low to high doesnt 
necesarily constitute a change in trend although this is one 
quarter of the earths revolution and sometimes important 
timing points to co incide with winter or summer equinox 
points . The proportionate parts of the circle are an important
timing mechanism and when multiple civil time frames move 
into directional alignment it is an important place to look for 
a possible change in trend but still we are not investigating 
the natural principles of cause that determine prices to top 
and bottom and Gann did leave clues and imformation on 
how he applied these elements but its a long and tedious 
process to fit the pieces togethor and if you think it is more 
important and pertinent to discuss or restructure my writing 
style than discuss timing techniques and natural law you are 
beacause a stock has a historical tendency to turn trend 
every 30 days doesnt neccesarily mean that it is an absolute 
timing mechanism because you are really only observing the 
effect and therefore you are only seeing one side of the 
equation without developing an understanding into the 
underlying principles and force structures that actually cause 
the market to change trend at that given point in time . 
This is what Gann was doing , he was studying and 
projecting forward timing points in wheat or corn based on a 
detailed examination of causes , the cause exists long before 
the effect takes place and it is just as easy to go forward 30 
days or one year and look for symetrical alignment between 
timing and price co ordinates but gee it is hard . it is akin to 
looking at the face of a watch and you can see the minute 
and hourly hands and the seconds ticking past but as the 
watch is a closed mechanism you cant see or understand the 
timing mechanics unless you take the case off the watch and 
peer inside and then we can truly identify and understand the 
magnetics or revoultions that really create time . 
Just because Corn is 90 days from low to high doesnt 
necesarily constitute a change in trend although this is one 
quarter of the earths revolution and sometimes important 
timing points to co incide with winter or summer equinox 
points . The proportionate parts of the circle are an important 
timing mechanism and when multiple civil time frames move 
into directional alignment it is an important place to look for 
a possible change in trend but still we are not investigating 
the natural principles of cause that determine prices to top 
and bottom and Gann did leave clues and imformation on 
how he applied these elements but its a long and tedious 
process to fit the pieces togethor and if you think it is more 
important and pertinent to discuss or restructure my writing 
style than discuss timing techniques and natural law you are

--- PAGE 64 of 72 ---

really just treading water and have no interest in Gann which
is the way he intended somewhat .
Robert Gorden
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversat
ions/topics/2779
In the Bible look for this verse
Ecclesiastes 1 : 2-11.
It appears in all Holy Books..just look for a similar worded verse
stephen
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversat
ions/topics/5553
I have been studying Gann rules for some time and am confused with 
one particular Gann calculation maybe someone could help clarify.
...and I quote from his letters...
"Example: Dec 2, 1953, May Soybeans high 311-1/4. This equaled 18 
degrees 45' in Pisces."
Would this not be 18 Degrees 45' prior to Pisces? 18 Degrees 45' in 
Pisces is 348.75 degrees.
He goes further to say "... or 90 degrees of Jupiter" Since Jupiter is 82.85 Geo and 80.46 
Helio, squaring the 348.75 to the Jupiter Helio is within a 2 Deg orb.
appreciate any advice.
thanks - Duane
Duane:
I know the answer to this question because it is covered in Mr. Ferrera's "Gann Unveiled 
course." The problem you are having is that Gann is not doing a straight longitude 
conversion. Gann is using the circle chart for these calculations, which is based on the 
really just treading water and have no interest in Gann which 
is the way he intended somewhat . 
Robert Gorden 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversat 
ions/topics/2779 
In the Bible look for this verse 
Ecclesiastes | : 2-11. 
It appears in all Holy Books..just look for a similar worded verse 
stephen 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversat 
ions/topics/5553 
I have been studying Gann rules for some time and am confused with 
one particular Gann calculation maybe someone could help clarify. 
...and I quote from his letters... 
"Example: Dec 2, 1953, May Soybeans high 311-1/4. This equaled 18 
degrees 45' in Pisces." 
Would this not be 18 Degrees 45' prior to Pisces? 18 Degrees 45' in 
Pisces 1s 348.75 degrees. 
He goes further to say "... or 90 degrees of Jupiter" Since Jupiter is 82.85 Geo and 80.46 
Helio, squaring the 348.75 to the Jupiter Helio is within a 2 Deg orb. 
appreciate any advice. 
thanks - Duane 
Duane: 
I know the answer to this question because it is covered in Mr. Ferrera's "Gann Unveiled 
course." The problem you are having is that Gann is not doing a straight longitude 
conversion. Gann is using the circle chart for these calculations, which is based on the

--- PAGE 65 of 72 ---

number "24", i.e. the number of hours it takes for the Earth to rotate 360-deg on it's axis. 
As a straight longitude, 311.25 would equal 11-deg 15-min Aquarius. On the circle chart, 
this number is located in Pisces. Take a look at the "Circle Chart". This should help.
Vera (vera10@mediaone.net)
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/1892
If you just read Gann's work you will find all the answers....there are no real secrets. Take
the S & P 500 cash index.......Major low 1st week January 1950 at 16.65.......March 24th 
2000 All time High.........Helio Jupiter moved 1531 * (degrees) plus 16 gives 1547, 
Saturn Helio moved 614*....at 2.5 points per degree gives 1535 + 16 =1551.........602 
months at 2.5 points per month = 1521.
October 1999 Low 1232......2/8 plus mini 1/8 gives 1552. Recent low March 22nd at 
1081........when price fell below 1232 it moved back into the previous range of 923 - 
1552.......range 2/8ths plus 923 gives 1080.25. Also 1 year from High. 1081 is also part of
an octave from both 1552 and lower top of 1530 (September). All you have to remember 
is Gann used 1/8ths and 1/3rds......and an octave has 8 
UNEQUAL divisions. Also divisions of octaves can themselves be divided into mini 
octaves....up to 6 times according to PD Ouspensky.
I hope this has been useful.
Neil
Here is a good website on explaining scales and modes.
http://www.kent.wednet.edu/staff/dyadon/scales_modes.html
Scales are classfied into different types based on their interval pattern.
Most people are familiar with the Major scale such a a C Major = C D EF G A BC 
However, as you will see at the referenced website, there are as many modes as there are 
notes.
This in part is determined by where the scale is started, as it doesn't have
to start on the same note as indicated by its key, such as C Major, which is
in the key of C, starts on C and ends on C with no flats or sharps. If one
starts a C scale three notes away and plays the same notes but ending one
octave from where you started this would be a C minor. So you see major or
minor are only two of several possible modes. All Major scales follow the
above pattern, regardless of key, whole step, whole step, half step, whole
step, whole step, whole step, half step. Above, please note (pun alert!)
the intervals between the letters. Where the letters are touching, this is a
half tone which = 1.0594631. This number is based on all half tones of a
chromatic scale which is all possible half tones in an octave = 12 notes. If
you multiply 1.0594631 12 times you will get approximately 2. An octave or
number "24", i.e. the number of hours it takes for the Earth to rotate 360-deg on it's axis. 
As a Straight longitude, 311.25 would equal 11-deg 15-min Aquarius. On the circle chart, 
this number is located in Pisces. Take a look at the "Circle Chart". This should help. 
Vera (veral0@mediaone.net) 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/1892 
If you just read Gann's work you will find all the answers....there are no real secrets. Take 
the S & P 500 cash index.......Major low Ist week January 1950 at 16.65.......March 24th 
2000 All time High......... Helio Jupiter moved 1531 * (degrees) plus 16 gives 1547, 
Saturn Helio moved 614*....at 2.5 points per degree gives 1535 + 16 =1551......... 602 
months at 2.5 points per month = 1521. 
October 1999 Low 1232......2/8 plus mini 1/8 gives 1552. Recent low March 22nd at 
1081........ when price fell below 1232 it moved back into the previous range of 923 - 
1552.......range 2/8ths plus 923 gives 1080.25. Also 1 year from High. 1081 is also part of 
an octave from both 1552 and lower top of 1530 (September). All you have to remember 
is Gann used 1/8ths and 1/3rds......and an octave has 8 
UNEQUAL divisions. Also divisions of octaves can themselves be divided into mini 
octaves....up to 6 times according to PD Ouspensky. 
I hope this has been useful. 
Neil 
Here is a good website on explaining scales and modes. 
http://www.kent.wednet.edu/staff/dyadon/scales_modes.html 
Scales are classfied into different types based on their interval pattern. 
Most people are familiar with the Major scale such a a C Major = C D EF 
GA BC 
However, as you will see at the referenced website, there are as many modes as there are 
notes. 
This in part is determined by where the scale is started, as it doesn't have 
to start on the same note as indicated by its key, such as C Major, which is 
in the key of C, starts on C and ends on C with no flats or sharps. If one 
starts a C scale three notes away and plays the same notes but ending one 
octave from where you started this would be a C minor. So you see major or 
minor are only two of several possible modes. All Major scales follow the 
above pattern, regardless of key, whole step, whole step, half step, whole 
step, whole step, whole step, half step. Above, please note (pun alert!) 
the intervals between the letters. Where the letters are touching, this is a 
half tone which = 1.0594631. This number is based on all half tones of a 
chromatic scale which is all possible half tones in an octave = 12 notes. If 
you multiply 1.0594631 12 times you will get approximately 2. An octave or

--- PAGE 66 of 72 ---

the same note one octave higher is two times the frequency of its lower
note. For example, a symphony tunes to the Violin open A string (one of 4
strings on the violin) = 440 cycles per second. 880 cps is also an "A" and
so is 220 cps. One can use these principles to figure out what tune the
market is playing. For example, I recollect that the cash S&P 500 topped on
March 24, 2000 at 1563? (I could be off by a few points - correct me if I am
wrong). You can use A 440 as a base. Go down two 1/2 intervals or divide 440
by 1.0594631 two times = 392 which is G . Now go up two octaves by
multiplying 392 by 2 and then again by 2 = two octaves = 1568 So you can
see that the top for the S&P 500 was near G. Now the question to ask is, in
what mode will the ensuing bear market be, such as will it decline ala G
Major, G Minor etc. One can tell by the first major levels on which it stops
or bounces. It would not be surprising for the market to chose a minor
scale for its decline becuase this is the scale for sad or "bluesie" type
music. Bull markets are probably in Major keys. But, that would just be my
first guess in our Name That Tune analysis. Anyway, have fun with this and
please share any inspriations you may get with the list.
Now, for a story as how to get good at this stuff. One day a young
musician was rushing down a New York City sidewalk to get to his concert
with violin case in hand, . He suddenly and unknowling crashed into famed
violinist Isaac Stern. Startled, he looked up and hurriedly said,
"Sir, could you please tell me how to get to Carnegie Hall?" Isaac Stern
replied with paced deliberation, "Practice...., practice...., practice!"
That's our music lesson for today. Remember, practice..., practice...,
practice!!
Musically,
Norman
P.S. Please feel free to correct any facts that may be wrong. I started
violin at age 8 but was mostly taught only how to play the notes in front of
me and almost no music theory. Most of the little bit of music theory I
know I learned on my own in the past few years. Isaac Stern wasn't
available.<G>
Serge,
Just stick with the simple scale.....do = 1, re = 9/8, mi = 5/4, fa = 
4/3, sol = 3/2, la = 5/3, si = 15/8, do = 2. 
You can see each of these equates to Gann's 1/8ths and 1/3rds. Can 
you see the retardation in the increase between mi and fa and si and 
the same note one octave higher is two times the frequency of its lower 
note. For example, a symphony tunes to the Violin open A string (one of 4 
strings on the violin) = 440 cycles per second. 880 cps is also an "A" and 
so is 220 cps. One can use these principles to figure out what tune the 
market is playing. For example, I recollect that the cash S&P 500 topped on 
March 24, 2000 at 1563? (I could be off by a few points - correct me if I am 
wrong). You can use A 440 as a base. Go down two 1/2 intervals or divide 440 
by 1.0594631 two times = 392 which is G 
. Now go up two octaves by 
multiplying 392 by 2 and then again by 2 = two octaves = 1568 So you can 
see that the top for the S&P 500 was near G. Now the question to ask is, in 
what mode will the ensuing bear market be, such as will it decline ala G 
Major, G Minor etc. One can tell by the first major levels on which it stops 
or bounces. It would not be surprising for the market to chose a minor 
scale for its decline becuase this is the scale for sad or "bluesie" type 
music. Bull markets are probably in Major keys. But, that would just be my 
first guess in our Name That Tune analysis. Anyway, have fun with this and 
please share any inspriations you may get with the list. 
Now, for a story as how to get good at this stuff. One day a young 
musician was rushing down a New York City sidewalk to get to his concert 
with violin case in hand, . He suddenly and unknowling crashed into famed 
violinist Isaac Stern. Startled, he looked up and hurriedly said, 
"Sir, could you please tell me how to get to Carnegie Hall?" Isaac Stern 
replied with paced deliberation, '"Practice...., practice...., practice!" 
That's our music lesson for today. Remember, practice..., practice..., 
practice!! 
Musically, 
Norman 
P.S. Please feel free to correct any facts that may be wrong. I started 
violin at age 8 but was mostly taught only how to play the notes in front of 
me and almost no music theory. Most of the little bit of music theory I 
know I learned on my own in the past few years. Isaac Stern wasn't 
available.<G> 
Serge, 
Just stick with the simple scale.....do = 1, re = 9/8, mi = 5/4, fa = 
4/3, sol = 3/2, la = 5/3, si = 15/8, do = 2. 
You can see each of these equates to Gann's 1/8ths and 1/3rds. Can 
you see the retardation in the increase between mi and fa and si and

--- PAGE 67 of 72 ---

do? Now reread Gann's Ticker Tape interview when he talks about 
vibrations and stocks at times becoming slow and other times becoming 
active and leading the market. Also the space between do and re, re 
and mi etc can also be divided into octaves ( up to a maximum of 6 
times according to PD Ouspensky). PD Ouspensky also says that a 
vibration can begin anywhere at a point in time (read price), Gann 
used the all time low as Do and followed forever on and upwards. I am 
amazed at how people want to make things regarding Gann so 
complicated.........just read his Profits book and buy either his 
Commodities Course(which I use) or his Stock Course, they seem to be 
self explanatory.
> Norman ,
Hello Neil, 
I appreciate your posts. Can you please help me by specifying in which 
book Ouspensky wrote about vibrations and scales ? 
Cheers 
Ola
Ola.....Hi,
In Search of the Miraculous........pages 122 - 140….read last 2 lines of page 124 and first 
paragraph on page 125.....then reread Gann's Ticker Tape interview.......uncanny.
Also page 128 shows how a vibration returns to its starting point after 6 full octaves......a 
completed circle. Hope you get as much from it as I did. 
Neil
Alex,
I believe you can buy the tape of her presentation for $89 from the MTA
A quick search of my files found this description of her presentation;
Constance Brown, CMT, CPO, of Aerodynamic Investments Inc., delivered a 
multimedia marvel that tested the limits of PowerPoint and demonstrated what 
lies at the edges of research in the discipline of technical analysis. Brown began 
with an overview of Gann's Square of Nine and explained how it overlapped 
some of the ratios that occur in the Fibonacci Square that creates the well-
known spiral. She then promised to decode the mystery behind the Square of 
Nine. The bottom line is that we learned that Gann's price wheels are calculators
that identify harmonic frequencies.
do? Now reread Gann's Ticker Tape interview when he talks about 
vibrations and stocks at times becoming slow and other times becoming 
active and leading the market. Also the space between do and re, re 
and mi etc can also be divided into octaves ( up to a maximum of 6 
times according to PD Ouspensky). PD Ouspensky also says that a 
vibration can begin anywhere at a point in time (read price), Gann 
used the all time low as Do and followed forever on and upwards. I am 
amazed at how people want to make things regarding Gann so 
complicated......... just read his Profits book and buy either his 
Commodities Course(which I use) or his Stock Course, they seem to be 
self explanatory. 
> Norman , 
Hello Neil, 
I appreciate your posts. Can you please help me by specifying in which 
book Ouspensky wrote about vibrations and scales ? 
Cheers 
Ola 
Ola.....Hi, 
paragraph on page 125.....then reread Gann's Ticker Tape interview.......uncanny. 
Also page 128 shows how a vibration returns to its starting point after 6 full octaves......a 
completed circle. Hope you get as much from it as I did. 
Neil 
Alex, 
I believe you can buy the tape of her presentation for $89 from the MTA 
A quick search of my files found this description of her presentation; 
Constance Brown, CMT, CPO, of Aerodynamic Investments Inc., delivered a 
multimedia marvel that tested the limits of PowerPoint and demonstrated what 
lies at the edges of research in the discipline of technical analysis. Brown began 
with an overview of Gann's Square of Nine and explained how it overlapped 
some of the ratios that occur in the Fibonacci Square that creates the well- 
known spiral. She then promised to decode the mystery behind the Square of 
Nine. The bottom line is that we learned that Gann's price wheels are calculators 
that identify harmonic frequencies.

--- PAGE 68 of 72 ---

Beginning her proof in ancient Greece, most of the audience learned for the first time that
Pythagoras discovered the Golden Ratio in 560 BC by means of sound. He heard metal 
banging against metal while walking past what could be considered a blacksmith shop 
and that discovery led to his belief that mathematics and music defined universal laws. 
Pythagoras further postulated that celestial and acoustic motion have the same methodical
basis. Brown explained that within the cult-like following that developed around 
Pythagoras, only propositions proven by math were accepted as universal truths.
Brown explained that Galileo the astronomer was in fact trying to study motion and 
harmonic relationships in our solar system from the musical propositions defined by 
Pythagoras. Galileo's work in music was later continued by the famous Swiss 
mathematician named Leonard Euler, which Brown explained led to the equal tempered 
twelve-tone musical scale with logarithmically equal intervals between each tone that we 
are familiar with today. This is when we saw mathematical evidence that all of Gann's 
Angles used to define critical trendlines in charts were in fact cyclical octaves. But 
Octaves alone would not define all the numbers within a Gann Wheel so we had to learn 
more about the mathematics of historical music scales and there construction to decode 
the Square of Nine.
The modern day music scale has major harmonic flaws and we learned how only an 
ancient scale retained perfect relationships that surprisingly duplicated the ratios within 
the Fibonacci Square. Brown then used advanced geometrical concepts to convert a linear
music scale into a three dimensional matrix and we saw how it transformed into Gann's 
Hexagon Wheel. This concept evolved further and we saw how the Hexagon Wheel was 
in fact an icosahedron, a three dimensional model incorporating the Golden Ratio and a 
model first described by Plato. Obviously, we operate with some good company.
Adding another layer of proof to her thesis, Connie displayed copies of the original pages
of Galileo's work on motion that introduced in 1609 the "Theorem of Equivalence." We 
had thought Gann had first defined this concept, but what Gann called price/time 
equivalence was in fact Galileo's Theorem of Equivalence applied.
cheers
TS
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/2024
Just a thought. If planetary influences affect human emotions (activity) shouldn't or 
wouldn't that be reflected in volume levels rather than price action? TA's who know 
volume say that Volume leads price action. Gann also says that no Bull or Bear market 
can take place before adequate accumulation or distribution takes place, we are all aware 
how market makers can manipulate prices to reflect their own holdings but they can't hide
volume. Maybe someone should look at volume levels during the waxing and waning of 
orbs. If anyone has done any work on this I would be interested in discussing this with 
them.
Hi Gentlemen,
Beginning her proof in ancient Greece, most of the audience learned for the first time that 
Pythagoras discovered the Golden Ratio in 560 BC by means of sound. He heard metal 
banging against metal while walking past what could be considered a blacksmith shop 
and that discovery led to his belief that mathematics and music defined universal laws. 
Pythagoras further postulated that celestial and acoustic motion have the same methodical 
basis. Brown explained that within the cult-like following that developed around 
Pythagoras, only propositions proven by math were accepted as universal truths. 
Brown explained that Galileo the astronomer was in fact trying to study motion and 
harmonic relationships in our solar system from the musical propositions defined by 
Pythagoras. Galileo's work in music was later continued by the famous Swiss 
mathematician named Leonard Euler, which Brown explained led to the equal tempered 
twelve-tone musical scale with logarithmically equal intervals between each tone that we 
are familiar with today. This is when we saw mathematical evidence that all of Gann's 
Angles used to define critical trendlines in charts were in fact cyclical octaves. But 
Octaves alone would not define all the numbers within a Gann Wheel so we had to learn 
more about the mathematics of historical music scales and there construction to decode 
the Square of Nine. 
The modern day music scale has major harmonic flaws and we learned how only an 
ancient scale retained perfect relationships that surprisingly duplicated the ratios within 
the Fibonacci Square. Brown then used advanced geometrical concepts to convert a linear 
music scale into a three dimensional matrix and we saw how it transformed into Gann's 
Hexagon Wheel. This concept evolved further and we saw how the Hexagon Wheel was 
in fact an icosahedron, a three dimensional model incorporating the Golden Ratio and a 
model first described by Plato. Obviously, we operate with some good company. 
Adding another layer of proof to her thesis, Connie displayed copies of the original pages 
of Galileo's work on motion that introduced in 1609 the "Theorem of Equivalence." We 
had thought Gann had first defined this concept, but what Gann called price/time 
equivalence was in fact Galileo's Theorem of Equivalence applied. 
cheers 
TS 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/gannsghost/conversations/topics/2024 
Just a thought. If planetary influences affect human emotions (activity) shouldn't or 
wouldn't that be reflected in volume levels rather than price action? TA's who know 
volume say that Volume leads price action. Gann also says that no Bull or Bear market 
can take place before adequate accumulation or distribution takes place, we are all aware 
how market makers can manipulate prices to reflect their own holdings but they can't hide 
volume. Maybe someone should look at volume levels during the waxing and waning of 
orbs. If anyone has done any work on this I would be interested in discussing this with 
them. 
Hi Gentlemen,

--- PAGE 69 of 72 ---

The reason I mentioned volume was as follows, if astrology works as people say on this 
site, then say, take the Natal chart of IBM when Jupiter or Saturn etc approaches the Asc, 
MC Sun or Moon or an important trine or square is formed surely activity(emotion) in the
form of increased or decreased volume should occur. For those who ignore Natals and 
just use the mass psychology at times of angular transits then surely that should also 
show up in increased or decreased activity, ie increased volume on down days due to 
negative influences etc. I'm not decrying astrology because as you've seen I have used 
Heliocentric degrees in getting price targets for the S&P 500. We seem to have a similar 
argument on this site as that between Stock fundamentalists and technical analysts, if all 
knowledge is encapsulated in the price why worry about a companies potential future 
earnings etc ( read astros). None of these comments are meant to inflame anyone's 
feelings, on the contrary, if the comments come back help then I guess we all benefit.
Some time ago I wrote about being excited by a book I had bought called Selected 
writings by George Lindsay......one section was called Interpreting the Stock Market Day 
-By-Day. He explained a method of trading the Dow without using any indicators or 
timing signals that could be completed in a few minutes per day......pretty cool I thought! 
I started tracking his method on 6-22-01. I trade the S&P so I used his method on that 
index because it was roughly at the same level the Dow was in his example from 1979-
1980. Only the volatility levels ie: the days spread was changed to allow wider ranges. 
These are the results to date.
Buy 6-27.........Sell 7-2.......Buy.....7-10...1 day early on S&P500 exact on 
Dow........Sell.......7-19....The next bit was tricky but with more data and a bit of logic it 
would be obvious (thank heavens for stops!)......No signal but 7-25 was way above any 
previous level in terms of up-down volume and near equal highs of advances - declines....
Sell 8-2-01. Still short until new signal appears. No MA's, no stochastics no cumulative 
volumes etc etc......no astrology! 
I'm sure this would also work on the Nasdaq because that has its own advances, declines 
and up down volume figures.
On a side note I came across a $10 book called Sun, Moon, & Earth...only a small book 
but really an eye opener....especially in regard to how the ancients knew phi and its 
relation to the above cycles over 4500 years ago.....it may also inadvertently have given 
the clue to the Biblical 40 days and 40 nights.....the moons apsides move 40* each year 
and also mentions a lot about sq roots angles etc etc.....ISBN 0-8027-1381-5.....another 
companion book is Sacred Geometry also $10 (again an amazing eye opener- an 8 sided 
star in a square can exactly divide it into 9,16, or 25 - the squares of 3,4 and 5.....I never 
knew that!!).....ISBN 0-8027-1382-3.
Happy Trading
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/TunnelThruTheAir/conversations/topics/5698
I am not certain if I have said it before or not but my back and forward testing have 
shown that with the DJIA and certain other international  equity market indices TTTTA 
The reason I mentioned volume was as follows, if astrology works as people say on this 
site, then say, take the Natal chart of IBM when Jupiter or Saturn etc approaches the Asc, 
MC Sun or Moon or an important trine or square is formed surely activity(emotion) in the 
form of increased or decreased volume should occur. For those who ignore Natals and 
just use the mass psychology at times of angular transits then surely that should also 
show up in increased or decreased activity, ie increased volume on down days due to 
negative influences etc. I'm not decrying astrology because as you've seen I have used 
Heliocentric degrees in getting price targets for the S&P 500. We seem to have a similar 
argument on this site as that between Stock fundamentalists and technical analysts, if all 
knowledge is encapsulated in the price why worry about a companies potential future 
earnings etc ( read astros). None of these comments are meant to inflame anyone's 
feelings, on the contrary, if the comments come back help then I guess we all benefit. 
Some time ago I wrote about being excited by a book I had bought called Selected 
writings by George Lindsay......one section was called Interpreting the Stock Market Day 
-By-Day. He explained a method of trading the Dow without using any indicators or 
timing signals that could be completed in a few minutes per day......pretty cool I thought! 
I started tracking his method on 6-22-01. I trade the S&P so I used his method on that 
index because it was roughly at the same level the Dow was in his example from 1979- 
1980. Only the volatility levels ie: the days spread was changed to allow wider ranges. 
These are the results to date. 
Buy 6-27......... Sell 7-2.......Buy.....7-10...1 day early on S&P500 exact on 
Dow........ Sell.......7-19.... The next bit was tricky but with more data and a bit of logic it 
would be obvious (thank heavens for stops!)......No signal but 7-25 was way above any 
previous level in terms of up-down volume and near equal highs of advances - declines.... 
Sell 8-2-01. Still short until new signal appears. No MA's, no stochastics no cumulative 
volumes etc etc......no astrology! 
I'm sure this would also work on the Nasdaq because that has its own advances, declines 
and up down volume figures. 
On a side note I came across a $10 book called Sun, Moon, & Earth...only a small book 
but really an eye opener....especially in regard to how the ancients knew phi and its 
relation to the above cycles over 4500 years ago.....it may also inadvertently have given 
the clue to the Biblical 40 days and 40 nights.....the moons apsides move 40* each year 
and also mentions a lot about sq roots angles etc etc..... ISBN 0-8027-1381-5.....another 
companion book is Sacred Geometry also $10 (again an amazing eye opener- an 8 sided 
star in a square can exactly divide it into 9,16, or 25 - the squares of 3,4 and 5.....I never 
knew that!!).... ISBN 0-8027-1382-3. 
Happy Trading 
https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/TunnelThruTheAir/conversations/topics/5698 
I am not certain if I have said it before or not but my back and forward testing have 
shown that with the DJIA and certain other international equity market indices TTTTA

--- PAGE 70 of 72 ---

operates as a gigantic formula containing a sequence of calendar day cycles which yields 
tops/bottoms with predictability of inversions . This formula is transposed into the future 
or past for testing on a sliding scale based on a set angle motion heliocentrically by a 
major planet . The exact dates for tops and bottoms are modulated by planet positions , I 
have not yet found out those planetary conditions essentially because I have not started 
the work , what I do have is the approx dates of the main tops/lows within 2 weeks plus 
or minus . It works to a T on the DJIA from before WW I to well after the story ends .  In 
some overseas markets like the EGX 30 Egypt  it works to a T for a period from 1997 to 
2018 with jaw dropping accuracy .
I would have liked to supply details but if I ever want to write and publish something 
outrageously expensive the news would be out :(  .
I have not found any solution to the Bible quotes , poems , spelling mistakes yet  nor to 
the inventions , nor have I correlated the timing with prices yet .
Regards,
Serge
Hi Harvey ,
I want to give one example only to illustrate one point . It will be a question 
to you about paragraph number 2 on page 199 . Have you worked it out at the
superficial level ?
Regards,
Serge
Hi, Serge!
On 8/4/18, teknalko astrostrata@... [TunnelThruTheAir]
<TunnelThruTheAir@yahoogroups.com> wrote:
> I want to give one example only to illustrate one point . It will be a
> question to you about paragraph number 2 on page 199 . Have you worked it
> out at the superficial level ?
Two parts to my response:
(1) A technicality of English grammar is that a paragraph on a page means a paragraph 
that STARTS on a page (sometimes referred to as a "full paragraph"). Thus, 
*technically*, the 2nd paragraph on page 199 begins, "Days, weeks and months...." 
operates as a gigantic formula containing a sequence of calendar day cycles which yields 
tops/bottoms with predictability of inversions . This formula is transposed into the future 
or past for testing on a sliding scale based on a set angle motion heliocentrically by a 
major planet . The exact dates for tops and bottoms are modulated by planet positions , I 
have not yet found out those planetary conditions essentially because I have not started 
the work , what I do have is the approx dates of the main tops/lows within 2 weeks plus 
or minus . It works to a T on the DJIA from before WW 
I to well after the story ends. In 
some overseas markets like the EGX 30 Egypt it works to a T for a period from 1997 to 
2018 with jaw dropping accuracy . 
I would have liked to supply details but if I ever want to write and publish something 
outrageously expensive the news would be out :(_ 
. 
I have not found any solution to the Bible quotes , poems , spelling mistakes yet nor to 
the inventions , nor have I correlated the timing with prices yet . 
Regards, 
Serge 
Hi Harvey , 
I want to give one example only to illustrate one point . It will be a question 
to you about paragraph number 2 on page 199 . Have you worked it out at the 
superficial level ? 
Regards, 
Serge 
Hi, Serge! 
On 8/4/18, teknalko astrostrata@... [TunnelThruTheAir] 
<TunnelThruTheAir@yahoogroups.com> wrote: 
> I want to give one example only to illustrate one point . It will be a 
> question to you about paragraph number 2 on page 199 . Have you worked it 
> out at the superficial level ? 
Two parts to my response: 
(1) A technicality of English grammar is that a paragraph on a page means a paragraph 
that STARTS on a page (sometimes referred to as a "full paragraph"). Thus, 
*technically*, the 2nd paragraph on page 199 begins, "Days, weeks and months...."

--- PAGE 71 of 72 ---

However, a lot of people would consider the paragraph that begins, "October, 1927...", to 
be the 2nd paragraph. Which "paragraph" are you referring to?
(2) In either case above, the answer to your question is "no". An online market friend and 
I are plugging away at "decoding" TTTTA, but other topics seem to catch our attention, 
too. I know bits and pieces of TTTTA, and I have been learning more and more little by 
little since 2009--at least until now. I say that because I am now a "student"/participant in 
Lorrie Bennett's LOV by the Patterns and LOV by the Numbers (the first 2 volumes of 
4--the other two are LOV by the Planets and LOV by Geometry), published by Sacred 
Science. These are quite a large amount of information to absorb and apply, so it's going 
to take me a long while. (Besides, at age 72, I'm in the middle of a multi-month project of
moving in with one of my daughters.) As you most likely already know, there are NDAs 
(non-disclosure agreements) for these, and so I 'm not permitted to talk about anything in 
these volumes.
I realize my "no" answer to your question may be disappointing, but that's all I can 
honestly say at this point, given the holes in my knowledge of TTTTA. If my friend and I
get to "decoding" that portion of the book, I'll be happy to perhaps give you a different 
answer at that time.
Thanks for your inquiry! (I thought this group had "died", but I'm so glad that you seem 
to have resurrected it again!)
Harvey
Hi Swagman,
The code Peter wrote had no meaning and my response with Jupiter/Uranus 
trines had no intended  meaning either  😂.
Now back to business reading Gann , he referred to October and sunshine 
and the previous October in 1926. Take it from me you are not meant to 
interpret or decode anything , you are meant to find FACTS Gann left for 
you because anything that anybody decodes and interprets without FACTS 
which cannot be disputed is utter BS.
1. Look up the Geo ephemeris for October 1926 you find Sat/Uranus trine on
30/10 , in the Helio ephemeris the Sat/Uranus trine is on 24/10 the day 
after the date he gives on 23/10 with sunshine again.
2. In Oct 27 in Geo there is nothing and in Helio there is on 28/10 a 
Jupiter/Uranus Conjunction .
However, a lot of people would consider the paragraph that begins, "October, 1927...", to 
be the 2nd paragraph. Which "paragraph" are you referring to? 
(2) In either case above, the answer to your question is "no". An online market friend and 
I are plugging away at "decoding" TTTTA, but other topics seem to catch our attention, 
too. I know bits and pieces of TTTTA, and I have been learning more and more little by 
little since 2009--at least until now. I say that because I am now a "student"/participant in 
Lorrie Bennett's LOV by the Patterns and LOV by the Numbers (the first 2 volumes of 
4--the other two are LOV by the Planets and LOV by Geometry), published by Sacred 
Science. These are quite a large amount of information to absorb and apply, so it's going 
to take me a long while. (Besides, at age 72, I'm in the middle of a multi-month project of 
moving in with one of my daughters.) As you most likely already know, there are NDAs 
(non-disclosure agreements) for these, and so I'm not permitted to talk about anything in 
these volumes. 
I realize my "no" answer to your question may be disappointing, but that's all I can 
honestly say at this point, given the holes in my knowledge of TTTTA. If my friend and I 
get to "decoding" that portion of the book, I'll be happy to perhaps give you a different 
answer at that time. 
Thanks for your inquiry! (I thought this group had "died", but I'm so glad that you seem 
to have resurrected it again!) 
Harvey 
Hi Swagman, 
The code Peter wrote had no meaning and my response with Jupiter/Uranus 
trines had no intended meaning either @. 
Now back to business reading Gann , he referred to October and sunshine 
and the previous October in 1926. Take it from me you are not meant to 
interpret or decode anything , you are meant to find FACTS Gann left for 
you because anything that anybody decodes and interprets without FACTS 
which cannot be disputed is utter BS. 
1. Look up the Geo ephemeris for October 1926 you find Sat/Uranus trine on 
30/10 , in the Helio ephemeris the Sat/Uranus trine is on 24/10 the day 
after the date he gives on 23/10 with sunshine again. 
2. In Oct 27 in Geo there is nothing and in Helio there is on 28/10 a 
Jupiter/Uranus Conjunction .

--- PAGE 72 of 72 ---

3.In Ch 5 Gann mentions the end of troubles to be on 15/7/32 however on 
15/7/27 there is the Geo Jupiter /Uranus conjunction. On 9/7/1932 you 
have the Jupiter/Uranus trine the day after the Crash Low. In Helio the 
Jupiter/Uranus trine comes on 22/02/1932 .
4.In the File section you will find Promotional Material from Gann and one of 
his customers said that Gann in Feb 1932 called the end of the bear 
market ......was this related to what is written above ????
5. The key to unravelling all this is to painstakingly work out time intervals 
between story events and market events and relationship to facts and not 
people's interpretations and opinions to get testable events with reliable 
recurrence.
More than that I will not divulge.
Happy Digging .
3.In Ch 5 Gann mentions the end of troubles to be on 15/7/32 however on 
15/7/27 there is the Geo Jupiter /Uranus conjunction. On 9/7/1932 you 
have the Jupiter/Uranus trine the day after the Crash Low. In Helio the 
Jupiter/Uranus trine comes on 22/02/1932 . 
4.In the File section you will find Promotional Material from Gann and one of 
his customers said that Gann in Feb 1932 called the end of the bear 
market ......was this related to what is written above ???? 
5. The key to unravelling all this is to painstakingly work out time intervals 
between story events and market events and relationship to facts and not 
people's interpretations and opinions to get testable events with reliable 
recurrence. 
More than that I will not divulge. 
Happy Digging .

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 81180859-Intraday-Trade-Using-Gann-Angle.pdf
Total Pages: 19
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 19 ---

Intraday Trading Technique 
 
1. Download video lecture with live intraday trade proof 
from below link open password smart5555 
http://www.screencast.com/t/1qcoC0CmALLf 
2. Free intraday trading gann angle calculator 
http://www.smartfinancein.com/gann-angle-
calculator.php  
 
For product query, call Chennai 044-64995823/09840348971. 
Mumbai  Mr Kedarnath 9702578013  
 
Intraday trade using gann angle principle 
 
In my book on “Gann Method” though I have explained 
various principles of W.D.Gann’s method and  its 
application on the stock market but the one which inspired 
me a lot is  “Gann angle” principle. The Gann angle is 
defined as the set of trend lines drawn from an individual 
price point or from different price points (i.e. high, low, and 
midpoint) in order to identify the supports and resistances 
of a future price move.  At this stage, do not worry much 
about this definition. It will become simpler as you proceed 
to the next part of this article.  The next big thing about the 
gann angle trend lines are that they are drawn at a particular 
angle with respect to the X-axis or to the time line. This 
concludes the basic formation of gann angle trend lines.  
 
Now let me explain this concept with the help of an 
example. Say I wish to draw a trend line at 1X1 (read it 
“one by one”) gann angle. This means my trend line is a

--- PAGE 2 of 19 ---

straight line drawn in the price time chart which makes an 
angle 45 degree with the X-axis.  You must ask me that 
how I have derived the 45 degree. Quite simple! This is a 
trend line drawn assuming 1 unit of price change happens 
with 1 unit of time change. If I will plot 1 unit of price 
change with respect to 1 unit of time change in a semi log 
scale and measure the angle with the help of a protractor I 
will get the angular measurement as 45 degrees.  
 
 
For making an intraday trade decision we need a point to 
make buy or sell entry. We need a stop loss point and 
couple of target points. Though this job can be done with 
any guess work but we need perfection. The perfection will 
be achieved only through the mathematical calculation 
which is accepted by the market. 
 
W.D.Gann has given us 11 different trend lines which will 
guide us in making a trade decision.  These trend lines are 
drawn based on the geometrical angle proportion in X and 
Y axis. For example the 2X1 (2 by 1) trend line is drawn 
assuming the 2 unit of price raise or fall happens in 1 unit 
of time.  This trend line makes geometrical angle of 63.75 
degrees with X-axis when drawn from a lower price point 
and projected towards the higher price points. Similarly this 
trend line will make 26.25 degrees with respect to x axis 
when it will be drawn from a higher price point and project 
towards the lower price point. This is the mathematical 
logic available in origin shifting, parallel line algorithm.

--- PAGE 3 of 19 ---

Now the 11 sets of trend lines from a lower price point 
towards the higher price point are as follows  1X1, 1X2, 
2X1, 1X3, 3X1, 1X4, 4X1, 1X8, 8X1, 1X16 and 16X1.  
 
The geometrical angle made by these trend lines with the X 
axis in an up move corresponding to 2X1= 63.75 degrees, 
1X2= 26.25 degrees, 1X1= 45 degrees, 1X3= 18.75 
degrees, 3X1= 71.25 degrees, 4X1= 75 degrees, 1X4= 15 
degrees, 8X1= 82.5 degrees, 1X8= 7.5 degrees, 1X16= 
3.75 degrees, 16X1= 86.25 degrees. 
  
The geometrical angle made by these trend lines with the X 
axis in a down move corresponding to 1X2= 63.75 
degrees, 2X1= 26.25 degrees, 1X1= 45 degrees,3X1= 
18.75 degrees,1X3= 71.25 degrees,1X4= 75 degrees,4X1= 
15 degrees, 1X8= 82.5 degrees,8X1= 7.5 degrees, 16X1= 
3.75 degrees,1X16= 86.25 degrees. 
 
Gann Formula for calculating the support and 
resistance:  
 
In gann study the 180 degree is considered as factor 1. This 
is because between the sun rise to sun set the solar motion 
happens approximately 180 degrees and it is considered as 
1 day time.  
 
The 2nd universal concept accepted by the financial analysts 
is that the supports are always calculated in a falling trend 
and it used to be calculated from the high.

--- PAGE 4 of 19 ---

The 3rd universal concept accepted by the financial analysts 
is that the resistances are always calculated in a falling 
trend and it used to be calculated from the low. 
 
Gann formula for calculating the support and 
resistance is as follows: 
 
a. Support = (square root of (high)- Degree factor)^2 
b. Resistance = (square root of (low) + Degree factor)^2 
 
Trading Rules as per gann and as modified by me 
(Soumya Ranjan Panda Author of this article) 
 
a. The 3rd support or resistance of any price move is 
important (as per W.D.Gann). 
b. In intraday trade 45 degree support break (1X1 
support) will favor sellers and 45 degree resistance 
(1X1 resistance) break will support the buyers. 
Provided the annual volatility of the trading 
instrument  must be higher than 50% (as per my own 
research ) 
c. In low volatile or medium volatile market (i.e. the 
annual volatility of the trading instrument is less than 
50 %) the (1X4= 15 degree) resistance and (4X1=15 
degree) support must be utilized for long and short 
entry provided no congestion or entry error should be 
present in the calculated price. (as per my own 
research ) 
 
d. If sell entry price at 15 degree or at 45 degree  greater 
than buy entry price at 15 degree or 45 degree price

--- PAGE 5 of 19 ---

point then it is considered as error and rectified by 
changing calculation procedure from the high and low 
to mid point of high and low. This says that instead of 
calculating the supports down from high and up from 
low you can calculate the same from the mid point of 
high and low (as per my own research ) 
 
e. If the price unit of the trading instrument is a 4 digit 
number then between the buy entry and sell entry 
price at least 5 unit difference is required to take 
unbiased decision as per this principle or else it is 
considered as congestion and it is rectified by 
changing the high and low to mid point. (as per my 
own research ) 
 
 
f. If the price unit of the trading instrument is a 3 digit 
number then between the buy entry and sell entry 
price at least 3.5 unit difference is required to take 
unbiased decision as per this principle or else it is 
considered as congestion and it is rectified by 
changing the high and low to mid point. (as per my 
own research ) 
 
g. If the price unit of the trading instrument is a 2 digit or 
single digit number then it must be converted to 4 digit 
number by the way of multiplying it with 10 or 100 or 
even with 1000 and the resistances and supports will 
be derived from the 4 digit number. And the results 
need to be dividing by the multiplier to reconvert it 
back to its original form. (as per my own research )

--- PAGE 6 of 19 ---

h. The smallest time interval in which you can identify 
the high and low is 5 minuets after the opening bell or 
the highest time interval you can consider is the 1st 15 
minute after the opening bell.  Any auction period 
must be ignored. Like now in Indian market 9 a.m. to 
9 :15 is considered as call auction period. Hence the 
data from 9 a.m. to 9:15 a.m. must be ignored (as per 
my own research ) 
i. If any trade of yours triggers the stop loss or trailing 
stop loss then do not reenter the  trade in the same 
direction again. 
 
As a day trader speculation is my profession and I will 
follow these calculations like religious testimony.  
 
Example:  on 11th November 2010 SBI between 9:15 
to 9:30 a.m. made high 3238.35 at 9:16 a.m.  low 
3214.10 at 9:27 a.m. below given the intraday chart 
for your reference.

--- PAGE 7 of 19 ---

Below given are the calculation of resistances and supports 
for reference. 
  
  
  
Low 
  
High 
  
  
  
  
  
3214.1   
3238   
  
  
Degree 
Degree 
Factor 
Resistance   
  
Degree 
Factor

--- PAGE 8 of 19 ---

(You can download a ready made free to use gann angle 
calculator from our web site from the following link 
http://www.smartfinancein.com/free-software.php . The 
paid calculator which is given along with the master 
course validates more number of logical conditions and 
infuses more number of gann principles in the decision 
making so as to give you greater success in intraday 
trade.) 
 
As per the above discussion and calculation procedure we 
have made the calculation of resistances and supports. As 
per the current volatility condition we are being advised to 
buy the stock at 3223.5558 or sell at 3228.8725. This is 
violating the point D trade principle and considered as an 
entry error henceforth we will change the high and low to 
its mid point and do the calculation from the mid point the 
mid point of 3238.35 and 3214.10 is 3226.225 . The 
modified calculation table is as follows. 
 
  
  
  
Low 
  
High 
  
  
  
  
  
3226.225 
  
3226.225 
  
  
  
Degree 
Degree Factor 
Resistance 
  
  
Degree Factor 
  
16X1 
86.25 
0.479166667 
3280.8878 
1X16 
86.25 
0.479166667 
3172.0214 
16X1 
86.25 
0.479166667 
3268.6604 1X16 
86.25 
0.479166667 3184.0442 
8X1 
82.5 
0.458333333 
3266.2787 1X8 
82.5 
0.458333333 3186.3958 
4X1 
75 
0.416666667 
3261.5178 1X4 
75 
0.416666667 3191.1015 
3X1 
71.25 
0.395833333 
3259.1387 1X3 
71.25 
0.395833333 3193.4557 
2X1 
63.75 
0.354166667 
3254.383 1X2 
63.75 
0.354166667 3198.1667 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
3242.509 1X1 
45 
0.25 3209.9592 
1X2 
26.25 
0.145833333 
3230.6567 2X1 
26.25 
0.145833333 3221.7735 
1X3 
18.75 
0.104166667 
3225.9219 3X1 
18.75 
0.104166667 3226.5053 
1X4 
15 
0.083333333 
3223.5558 4X1 
15 
0.083333333 3228.8725 
1X8 
7.5 
0.041666667 
3218.8262 8X1 
7.5 
0.041666667 3233.6095 
1X16 
3.75 
0.020833333 
3216.4626 16X1 
3.75 
0.020833333 3235.9793

--- PAGE 9 of 19 ---

8X1 
82.5 
0.458333333 
3278.5016 
1X8 
82.5 
0.458333333 
3174.3685 
4X1 
75 
0.416666667 
3273.7318 
1X4 
75 
0.416666667 
3179.0654 
3X1 
71.25 
0.395833333 
3271.3482 
1X3 
71.25 
0.395833333 
3181.4151 
2X1 
63.75 
0.354166667 
3266.5837 
1X2 
63.75 
0.354166667 
3186.1172 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
3254.6874 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
3197.8876 
1X2 
26.25 
0.145833333 
3242.8129 
2X1 
26.25 
0.145833333 
3209.6796 
1X3 
18.75 
0.104166667 
3238.0692 
3X1 
18.75 
0.104166667 
3214.4025 
1X4 
15 
0.083333333 
3235.6986 
4X1 
15 
0.083333333 
3216.7653 
1X8 
7.5 
0.041666667 
3230.9601 
8X1 
7.5 
0.041666667 
3221.4934 
1X16 
3.75 
0.020833333 
3228.5921 
16X1 
3.75 
0.020833333 
3223.8588 
 
As per the modified calculation we are advised to buy at 
3235.6986 for final target 3280.8878 and sell at 3216.7653 
for final target of 3172.0214 
 
Trade outcome:  
1. At 9:34 a.m. We got a chance to sell at 3217 and kept 
out stop loss at 3235.70 this as per our calculation. Upon 
achieving the 1st target 3214.4we trail to stop loss to 
3216.80, then upon crossing the 2nd target we trail the stop 
loss to 3214.40. Unfortunately after touching the low 3211 
at 9:39 a.m. the trailing stop loss triggered at 3214.40 and 
we just bagged less then +3 points. 
2.  Considering our short trade adventure is wrong and as 
per the last protocol set in the trade rule we waited for the 
3235.70 to come which we have got a chance at 10:07 a.m. 
and achieved till 3254 till 11:27 a.m. which is close near to 
our 45 degree target point.  
 
If you are not quick in changing the stop loss also it will 
not dampen your trade performance.  
In this case if my shell stop loss triggered at 3235.7 I will 
accept close near to 18.9 point loss and be a buyer at this

--- PAGE 10 of 19 ---

point keeping the stop at 3235.7 and aim for the last target  
3281 with some logical trailing stop loss.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This concept works in commodity, currency as well as in 
stocks.  
 
However the limitation of this article is that it does not 
discuss all the trading rules and conditions which are being 
researched by me. In the gann master course the supplied 
software uses all the extended set of logics.  
 
 
Day trading using Gann Angle dynamic approach: if we 
will make use of the volatility along with the gann angle 
then this concept will become dynamic and it will produce 
great result. All the above process that I have explained in

--- PAGE 11 of 19 ---

the earlier section will remain same only additional 
parameter daily volatility will be used with the gann angle. 
In this method, we will calculate the daily volatility based 
on the past 10 days last trade price of any instrument. 
 
1. Daily volatility calculation:  
a. Take past 10 days last trade price of any stock or index. 
b. Calculate the absolute return by using the natural 
logarithm function LN(). You will get 9 data points. 
Formula:  
Absolute return = LN (Current price/ Previous price) 
c. Calculate the square absolute return for all 9 data  
    points. 
d.Calculate the average of absolute return and square 
absolute return. 
e. Calculate variance.  
Formula: 
Variance = square absolute return – (absolute return)2  
f. Calculate daily volatility percentage. 
 Formula: Daily Volatility percentage = square root of 
(variance) X 100. 
 
From the daily volatility percentage, we understood in the 
coming day the stock or index whose daily volatility 
percentage was calculated as per the above process would 
fluctuate to the extent of daily volatility percentage. 
 
I have taken the state bank of India 12 October to 25 
October 2011 to predict the intraday level for next trading 
session   using the gann angle and the volatility.

--- PAGE 12 of 19 ---

a. I have calculated the daily volatility as explained above for 
sbi. 
 
 
    
Date 
LTP-SBI 
Absolute return 
Square absolute return 
12-Oct-11 
1880 
0 
0 
13-Oct-11 
1875.35 
-0.002476468 
6.13289E-06 
14-Oct-11 
1883 
0.004070941 
1.65726E-05 
17-Oct-11 
1885.5 
0.001326788 
1.76037E-06 
18-Oct-11 
1885 
-0.000265217 
7.034E-08 
19-Oct-11 
1909.25 
0.012782674 
0.000163397 
20-Oct-11 
1933.9 
0.012828195 
0.000164563 
21-Oct-11 
1949 
0.007777731 
6.04931E-05 
24-Oct-11 
1911 
-0.019689755 
0.000387686 
25-Oct-11 
1842.25 
-0.036639015 
0.001342417 
  
Average 
-0.002253792 
0.000238121 
  
Variance 
0.000233042 
  
Daily Volatility % 
  
1.526570684 
  
 
Above calculation says the daily volatility is 1.5266%. 
Hence, the stock has the probability to fluctuate by 
1.5266% in the coming day. Base on the above conclusion I 
will see a price fluctuation of 28.1233 (i.e. 1842.25 x 
1.5266/100) rupee in the sbi counter in future trading 
session. 
 
Hence my expected high is 1842.25+28.1233 =1870.3732 
my expected low is 1842.25-28.1233=1814.1268. 
 
Now in order to get the buy sell level in the gap up opening 
with uptrend I will use the 1842.25 as low and 1870.3732 
as high in the gann angle tool and follow all its rules to 
derive the targets.  
Using the above price points I observe that the trading 
rule–d is being violated, hence I have done the changes in

--- PAGE 13 of 19 ---

the data point to 1856.32 (i.e. midpoint of the above data 
points) and derive the following levels for the future 
trading session. 
 
 
  
  
  
Low 
  
High 
  
  
  
  
  
1856.32 
  
1856.32 
  
  
  
Degree 
Degree Factor 
Resistance 
  
  
Degree Factor 
support 
16X1 
86.25 
0.479166667 
1897.8394 
1X16 
86.25 
0.479166667 
1815.2598 
8X1 
82.5 
0.458333333 
1896.0247 
1X8 
82.5 
0.458333333 
1817.0355 
4X1 
75 
0.416666667 
1892.3978 
1X4 
75 
0.416666667 
1820.5894 
3X1 
71.25 
0.395833333 
1890.5857 
1X3 
71.25 
0.395833333 
1822.3677 
2X1 
63.75 
0.354166667 
1886.964 
1X2 
63.75 
0.354166667 
1825.9269 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
1877.925 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
1834.84 
1X2 
26.25 
0.145833333 
1868.9077 
2X1 
26.25 
0.145833333 
1843.7748 
1X3 
18.75 
0.104166667 
1865.3069 
3X1 
18.75 
0.104166667 
1847.3548 
1X4 
15 
0.083333333 
1863.5078 
4X1 
15 
0.083333333 
1849.1461 
1X8 
7.5 
0.041666667 
1859.9122 
8X1 
7.5 
0.041666667 
1852.7313 
1X16 
3.75 
0.020833333 
1858.1156 
16X1 
3.75 
0.020833333 
1854.5252 
 
In the future trading session which follows the 25th october 
2011 any gap up opening above 1849.14 and below 
1863.50, if the price cross over 1863.50 then I will buy sbi 
for optimum target of 1898 and any gap up opening and 
price below 1849 I will sell for target 1815.25. 
 
Similarly, to get the buy sell levels in the gap down 
opening and downtrend I will use the 1842.25 as high and 
1814.1268 as low in gann angle tool and derive the targets. 
 
Using the above price points I observe that the trading 
rule–d is being violated, hence I have done the changes in 
the data point to 1828.19 (i.e. midpoint of the above data 
points) and derive the following levels for the future 
trading session.

--- PAGE 14 of 19 ---

Low 
  
High 
  
  
  
  
  
1828.19 
  
1828.19 
  
  
  
Degree 
Degree 
Factor 
Resistance 
  
  
Degree 
Factor 
support 
16X1 
86.25 
0.479166667 
1869.3954 
1X16 
86.25 
0.479166667 
1787.4438 
8X1 
82.5 
0.458333333 
1867.5943 
1X8 
82.5 
0.458333333 
1789.2058 
4X1 
75 
0.416666667 
1863.9947 
1X4 
75 
0.416666667 
1792.7325 
3X1 
71.25 
0.395833333 
1862.1962 
1X3 
71.25 
0.395833333 
1794.4971 
2X1 
63.75 
0.354166667 
1858.6019 
1X2 
63.75 
0.354166667 
1798.029 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
1849.6312 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
1806.8738 
1X2 
26.25 
0.145833333 
1840.6822 
2X1 
26.25 
0.145833333 
1815.7404 
1X3 
18.75 
0.104166667 
1837.1086 
3X1 
18.75 
0.104166667 
1819.2931 
1X4 
15 
0.083333333 
1835.3232 
4X1 
15 
0.083333333 
1821.0707 
1X8 
7.5 
0.041666667 
1831.7548 
8X1 
7.5 
0.041666667 
1824.6286 
1X16 
3.75 
0.020833333 
1829.972 
16X1 
3.75 
0.020833333 
1826.4089 
 
In the future trading session which follows the 25th october 
2011 any gap down opening above 1821.07 and below 
1835.32, if the price cross over 1835.32 then I will buy sbi 
for optimum target of 1869.39 and any gap down opening 
and price below 1821.07 I will sell for target 1787.44. 
 
If  the price in future day may have a gap up opening 
above 1863.5078 or below 1849.1461 or gap down 
opening below 1821.0707 or above 1835.3232 then the 
above calculation will not solve our requirement then we 
need to take the opening price of that day into account for 
calculation of volatility. We will use the opening price with 
projected high and opening price with projected low in

--- PAGE 15 of 19 ---

gann angle tool to derive the entry levels. Say SBI open at 
1870 on the future trading day which follows the   25th 
october 2011 then in the volatility calculation replace the 
1842.25 with 1870 and calculated the new volatility and 
expected high and low. The new data points will be as 
follows  
 
Date 
LTP-SBI 
Absolute 
return 
Square absolute return 
12-Oct-11 
1880 
0 
0 
13-Oct-11 
1875.35 
-0.002476468 
6.13289E-06 
14-Oct-11 
1883 
0.004070941 
1.65726E-05 
17-Oct-11 
1885.5 
0.001326788 
1.76037E-06 
18-Oct-11 
1885 
-0.000265217 
7.034E-08 
19-Oct-11 
1909.25 
0.012782674 
0.000163397 
20-Oct-11 
1933.9 
0.012828195 
0.000164563 
21-Oct-11 
1949 
0.007777731 
6.04931E-05 
24-Oct-11 
1911 
-0.019689755 
0.000387686 
25-Oct-11 
1870 
-0.021688234 
0.00047038 
  
Average 
-0.000592594 
0.000141228 
  
Variance 
0.000140877 
  
Daily Volatility 
% 
  
1.186916667 
  
Expected high 
  
1892.195342 
  
Expected low 
  
1847.804658 
  
 
New trading levels in uptrend will be as given below. Since 
the opening is gap up the uptrend, calculation will be 
followed for trade decision. In this case, the downtrend 
level calculation is not required. 
  
  
  
Low 
  
High 
  
  
  
  
  
1881.1 
  
1881.1 
  
  
  
Degree 
Degree 
Factor 
Resistance 
  
  
Degree 
Factor 
support 
16X1 
86.25 
0.479166667 
1922.8941 
1X16 
86.25 
0.479166667 
1839.7651 
8X1 
82.5 
0.458333333 
1921.0674 
1X8 
82.5 
0.458333333 
1841.5527 
4X1 
75 
0.416666667 
1917.4167 
1X4 
75 
0.416666667 
1845.1306 
3X1 
71.25 
0.395833333 
1915.5926 
1X3 
71.25 
0.395833333 
1846.9208 
2X1 
63.75 
0.354166667 
1911.947 
1X2 
63.75 
0.354166667 
1850.5038 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
1902.8483 
1X1 
45 
0.25 
1859.4767 
1X2 
26.25 
0.145833333 
1893.7713 
2X1 
26.25 
0.145833333 
1868.4712 
1X3 
18.75 
0.104166667 
1890.1466 
3X1 
18.75 
0.104166667 
1872.0751

--- PAGE 16 of 19 ---

1X4 
15 
0.083333333 
1888.3356 
4X1 
15 
0.083333333 
1873.8783 
1X8 
7.5 
0.041666667 
1884.716 
8X1 
7.5 
0.041666667 
1877.4874 
1X16 
3.75 
0.020833333 
1882.9076 
16X1 
3.75 
0.020833333 
1879.2933 
 
 
Trend termination point: Gann angle also helps us in 
identifying the trend and the trend termination. 1 X 4 or the 
4 X 1 angle price point cross over is known as the 
preliminary trend confirmation points for uptrend or 
downtrend. However, the 1 X 1 angle price resistance 
crossover signals the strong up trend break out and the 1 X 
1 angle price support break considered as strong down 
trend break out. In gann angle concept we assume all the 
trend action will terminate at 1 X 16 or 16 X 1 angle price 
point.  
 
Dynamic gann square of nine principles: Using the 
volatility we can make any gann method dynamic. In gann 
square of nine principle, we need to derive the uptrend 
price points in the wheel by adding the step to the lowest 
number and each higher number in the wheel will be its 
preceding number added with the step. Similarly the 
downtrend price points will be calculated by subtracting the 
step from the highest number. Step is nothing but the high 
to low price difference divided by 81 for square of nine 
wheel. While using the gann square of nine for deriving the 
short-term investment decision I found the principle yields 
good result. However when applying the same concept in 
the intraday trade I did not get the desired result which I 
was expecting from the method.  This is the reason why I 
have thought of to introduce the volatility in this method.

--- PAGE 17 of 19 ---

Now the key question is how the volatility will find a place 
in this method. As I have explained before the daily 
volatility, percentage is the expected price fluctuation. 
Hence, now we will take the expected price fluctuation to 
derive the steps. Consider the same example of SBI given 
in page 105. The daily volatility percentage is 1.5266, 
expected price range is Rs 28.12, and the last trade price is 
1842.25. 
 
Step will be 28.12/81=0.347160 
Seed number will be 1842.25+0.347160 this will be the 1st 
number in the square of nine wheel. Second number will be 
1st number added with 0.347160 .Likewise the 81st   
number will be 80th number added with the 0.347160 and 
this must be equal to 1842.25+28.12=1870.3732 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dynamic gann square of twelve principles: The way i 
have done the square of nine dynamic in the same way I

--- PAGE 18 of 19 ---

will make the square of 12 dynamic. I will use the daily 
volatility percentage to find the price range for the day 
followed with I will calculate the steps by dividing the 
price range with 144. The seed number in the uptrend 
will be the last trade price added with the step and the 
144th number will be 143rd number added with the step. 
However do remember the square of 12 wheel is a 
different from the square of nine wheel in many aspects 
the arrangement of numbers are also different. The 
downtrend price points will be calculated by the way of 
subtracting the step from the last trade price.  
 
While using Dynamic Square of nine or dynamic square 
of twelve wheels keep a close eye on the annual 
volatility percentage. Annual volatility is nothing but the 
daily volatility multiplied with square root of 365. If the 
annual volatility is above 40% use the square of twelve 
wheel else use the dynamic square of 9 for making the 
intraday trade decision. 
 
You can buy w.d. gann course with 34 intraday trade 
technique along with intraday gann trading software 
useful for stock, index, commodity, and currency at Rs 
1500. Detail of the course you will find from the 
following 
link 
http://www.smartfinancein.com/gann-
course-offer.php  
 
For 
product 
related 
enquiry, 
you 
can 
contact 
09840348971 /044-64995823 we have the sales franchise 
at Mumbai and office at Chennai for detail information 
visit http://www.smartfinancein.com/contactus.php

--- PAGE 19 of 19 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: 96954586-WD-GANN-Number-Vibrations.pdf
Total Pages: 3
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 3 ---

I found this post somewhere on the web. Its thought provoking if nothing else. Gann was 
into numerology. 
 
In numerolgy you want to find the number vibration by adding up the digits to bring it down to a 
single digit. For example if you have the number 2417 you add up the single digits [2+4+1+7 = 
14=1+4 =5 So the number 2417 dances to the vibration of 5. 
Now the circle is 360 degrees if you break it up into 30 degrees increments you have 30 60 90 
120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 and 360… now if you break each number down to a single 
digit then you have a pattern or symetry working..3 6 9 3 6 9 3 6 9 3 6 9. Now you might say so 
what. Look at the pattern in percentages of price movement(Read W.D Gann..45 Years in Wall 
Street} 
 
3.125 =  2   43.75  =  1  84.375=  9 
 
6.25  =  4   46.875 =  3  87.5  =  2 
 
9.375 =  6   50     =  5  90.625=  4 
 
12.5  =  8   53.125 =  7  93.75 =  6 
 
15.625=  1   56.25  =  9  96.875=  8 
 
18.75 =  3   59.375 =  2  100   =  1 
 
21.875=  5   62.5   =  4 
 
25    =  7   65.625 =  6 
 
28.125=  9   68.75  =  8 
 
31.25 =  2   71.875 =  1 
 
34.375=  4   75     =  3 
 
37.5  =  6   78.125 =  5 
 
40.625=  8   81.25  =  7 
See the percentages table when broken down to a single digit the percentage move to a perfect 
Yin and Yang pattern of order starting from Even digit to Odd digits and back to Even and then 
Back to Odd digits. 
Gann mentions in 45 years of Wall Street that the percentages was the one of the greatest 
discoveries he made.Now lets look at the number 144... 
when we bring it down to a single digit it comes to 9..so change of price or time can occur.So the 
following digits 18 36 54 72 90 108 126 144 bring to single digit = 9 .This applies in time and 
price. But you must go and back test these numbers on ranges in price,multiples of 144 
For example look at the price of the stock when it is at 144 288 432 and so on.Also when the 
market of a particular stock is say for instance is at 2999 then look for the next resistance or 
support by adding 144 and wait for conformation wether it will move into the next square of 144 
If 144 is to much for that particular stock then do divisions of 144...18 36 54 72..... 
Study the number 144 more you will find it all ties into square of nine.You then needto go and 
back test these numbers on past history of a stock on a chart.The answers are all there one needs 
to put in the effort and you will see and discover more. kind regards to all

--- PAGE 2 of 3 ---

Brett  
Hello David 
Thanks for the email Look at the number 144.if you do a bit of study on numerolgy to find the 
real value of the vibration of the number you need to bring it down to a single digit.  
So if you add the digits 144{1+4+4 =9}So when a number reaches 9 it has to change back to 1 
again.18 27 36 45 54 63 72 81 90 99 108 117 126 135 and 144 all add up to 9 when you bring it 
down to a single digit. 
When you look at a circle it has 360 degrees start from the cardinal points we have 0 90 180 270 
360 now all these numbers add up to 9 when you bring it down to a single digit...now the trine 
points of the circle which is the 45 degrees to the cardinal points which of course is 90 ... 
so the trine points of the circle are 45 135 225 315 now each number here adds up to 9.... 
change occurs so in relation to the stock market go back test time and price .W.D Gann stated 
then go back test the history of the stock and prove it to yourself that the numbers keep on 
coming in.Also use time periods of 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360 .. 
now if you bring these numbers to a single digit you will see a pattern of symetry 3 6 9..3 6 9 3 6 
9 3 6 9 ... 
in regards to % movement in price use the percentage number of  
3.125 equals 2  
6.25 equals 4  
9.375 equals 6  
12.5 equals 8  
15.625 equals 1  
18.75 equals 3  
21.875 equals 5  
25 equals 7  
28.125 equals 9  
31.25 equals 2  
34.375 equals 4  
37.5 equals 6  
40.625 equals 8  
43.75 equals 1  
46.875 equals 3  
50 equals 5  
53.125 equals 7  
56.25 equals 9  
59.375 equals 2  
62.5 equals 4  
65.625 equals 6  
68.75 equals 8  
71.875 equals 1  
75 equals 3  
78.125 equals 5

--- PAGE 3 of 3 ---

81.25 equals 7  
84.375 equals 9  
87.5 equals 2  
90.625 equals 4  
93.75 equals 6  
96.875 equals 8  
100 equals 1 
now you can see the symetry .But dont believe me go test it out for you self mathematics and 
Geomtry applied to the market reveals the Truth. 
Study study apply and prove it to yourself the biggest obstacle in one life is each individuals 
human conditioning and flawed way of thinking base on human emotion . 
To tap into the Universal Truth one needs to vibrate the same frequencies.....kill the ego embrace 
your realself {SPIRIT} and hang on for the time of your life. 
kind regards 
Brett 
Re-read the post .Buy the book The Day of Wisdom According to Number Vibration by Mrs .L 
Dow Balliett. regards Brett 
The book is available to read for free on-line at: 
http://site.ebrary.com/pub/kessinger

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: Book_1978_Gann_Astro Cycles And Speculative methods.pdf
Total Pages: 143
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 143 ---

ASTRO-CYCLES 
AND 
SPECULATIVE MARKETS 
by 
L. J. Jensen 
"Oy 
LAMBERT-GANN PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC. 
Pomeroy, Washington 99347 
1978

--- PAGE 2 of 143 ---

To 
LLEWELLYN GEORGE 
Pioneer in American astro-research, who gave me a 
world-wide audience from 1931 to 1954 in his BULLE- 
TIN A quarterly; Arthur 1. Boreman, publisher of the 
MERCHANT ' S TRADE JOURNAL, who never edited 
one word from my business trend comments every month 
from 1933 to 1959; and, to Billy Jones who insisted this 
material should be printed and published as a heritage 
to others to expand their success.

--- PAGE 3 of 143 ---

CONTENTS 
PREFACE vii 
Section 1 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
1. The Problem of Economic Causation  3 
2. The Vibration Spectrum  5 
3. The Sun-Spot Cycle  7 
4. The Planetary Cycles 10 
5. The Uranus Cycle 12 
6. Some Conclusions 16 
Section II 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Foreword 
1. Mundane Rulerships 25 
2. Progressions and Transits 31 
3. Synthesis — Estimating Economic Trends 35 
4. The Houses in Mundane and Corporation Charts ... 39 
5. Eclipses 42 
6. Interpretation cf the Planets in Houses and Signs ... 43 
7. Casting Mundane Charts 45 
8. Notes. Base Charts. Keys 46 
9. The United States Birth Chart 61 
10. An "Over'-Simplified Method cf 
Astro-Cycle Interpretation 65 
11. The Aspects or Angles Between Planets 68 
12. Combining Sign-Houses and House-Signs and Aspects . . 70 
13. Planetary Aspects or Angular Relationships .... 80 
14. Formation cf a Market Forecast 82 
Section III 
MARKET CHARTS 
Foreword 
1. Geometrical Fundamentals 101 
2. First Steps in Charting 103 
3. Resistance. Objective and Trend 107

--- PAGE 4 of 143 ---

vi CONTENTS 
4. The Daily Chart 114 
5. Supplementary Helps 117 
Section IV 
1. First Steps Putting It Together 121 
2. Timing Elements 124 
3. Charting the Price Range Data  
129 
4. Estimating Prospects for a Locality ^ 132 
(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters) 
CHARTS AND MAPS (Partial List—see Text) 
Outline Map cf the World with Zodiacal Rulerships ... 29 
Outline Map cf the United States with Rulerships . 30 
Radix Great Mutation 47 
Rotational Conjunction 1921 48 
Declaration cf Independence (United States Chart) . 49 
New York Stock Exchange 50 
Liverpool Grain Exchange 51 
Bank cf England 52 
Chicago Board of Trade 53 
United States Steel Corporation 54

--- PAGE 5 of 143 ---

PREFACE 
The bulk cf the material in this edition was published in three 
brochures copyright 1935 and 1938. A condensation cf the third 
brochure on charting market statistics was issued as one cf many market 
studies while I was an analyst for a New York Stock Exchange firm. 
This edition comprises all cf the original three works with some addi- 
tional material in order to bridge the three into a continuity plus a 
number cf working examples cf methods which apply the principles 
involved. 
Section I offers some introduction to working applications cf what I 
term astro-cycles. The sources are the long established astronomical 
orbits cf the principal planets in that small niche cf the Universe which 
comprises the Solar System cf the Earth. For example, applied to cycle 
cadence is Jupiter and Saturn with their apparent conjunction ap- 
proximately every 20 years. Many cf these planetary cycle applications 
were original when published in 1934, but since then have been lifted 
out cf context and embraced by publications issued in Calcutta, Hong 
Kong, London, New York and Los Angeles. The plagiarism is cf little 
importance but the widespread practice has brought to attention the 
unquestioned validity of the data. 
The purpose cf the material in Section II was a notebook reference 
manual to present the salient procedures and elements cf astro-cycle 
applications to mundane affairs. Public psychology, business cycles, the 
price swings cf speculative commodity and stock markets, wars, famines, 
major weather trends, etc, have innumerable keys to answers by this 
concept. 
Very little cf the material has been co-ordinated before in print so that 
a student might quickly grasp the more significant factors. Separately 
most cf the factors have been generally known but not the why and how 
of mixing them. Part cf this condition has been intentional; why throw 
to the winds hard won data? There is another side though. Modern 
society has boxed itself in, painted itself into a dangerous corner. Out- 
wardly it is in great shape in its apparent affluence, mechanical achieve- 
ments and productive know-how. Actually it is a shell cf wasted 
resources, mountainous debt, galloping inflation, and eroding moral 
concepts. An Age is at an end which is out cf date, primitive and self- 
righteous with the chest-pounding adage that man is captain cf his fate. 
He may perish unless he gets down to the reality cf Natural Law. 
Section II contains no pretense of giving all the answers to modem 
problems. However, it does offer a means to a well-hidden phase of 
Truth which might lead to a foundation cf security for those diligent 
enough to examine and test the data. That such an approach infuriates 
those who proudly hold that nature has no design, no purpose and no 
form cf continuity ceased to concern me more than fifty years ago.

--- PAGE 6 of 143 ---

viii 
PREFACE 
A major factor in the workings cf Natural Law is cosmic radiation, 
that enormous vibrational power of the Sun which is reflected, deflected 
and mixed with the vibrational forces cf planets striking the Earth in a 
constantly varying array. Often it is ponderously stated that none of 
these vibrations are strong enough to affect a human being. In almost 
the same breath they talk about the possible uses cf solar energy. No 
matter if proven, or hallowed, or generally accepted as a fact cf life it 
is always easy to find some clown who vehemently disagrees. Perhaps 
the answer is not the defense cf the how and the why, but does it,work, 
does it give results? 
In my youth it was generally accepted that the claim electrical sig- 
nals could be transmitted without wires was a complete hoax, equal 
only to the idea that man could fly in anything but a balloon. On these 
two points alone college professors rated as scientific authorities, plus 
office holders who felt they protected the people, were around giving 
lectures warning against such idiotic claims. 
Here are methods and their working factors cf close to a half a cen- 
tury cf producing results. It is an esoteric subject; it is not for the 
average investor who really gets his kicks putting money into an array 
of stocks and then every day sweating the price movements. Over the 
years he usually ends up with one winner and ten losers. This material 
is for the serious winner who has the attitude cf a navigator and im- 
personally obeys his computations. He is not in markets for kicks but 
for profits. 
Section III uses some of the basic factors cf Section II and applies 
them to a system which is a coupling cf time and price. It is a simple 
charting of market prices. It is so simple any change or revision in the 
basic premises involved destroys its effectiveness. It will not work prop- 
erly with logarythmic scales, and the dependence on time brooks no 
shortcuts or distortion in the arithmetic scale. 
September 1977 
L. J. Jensen

--- PAGE 7 of 143 ---

Section I 
MAJOR TRENDS 
IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
Copyright 1935 by 
L. J. Jensen 
All Rights Reserved

--- PAGE 8 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
THE PROBLEM 
OF ECONOMIC CAUSATION 
The habit cf popular thinking lies along the vein that all economic 
problems are merely debatable theories. All economic affairs are viewed 
from much the same perspective as religious or political opinions; as 
something entirely dependent on the particular prejudice which happens 
to fit the environmental or geographical viewpoint. So it seems strange 
to suggest that there may be immutable laws that motivate the psy- 
chology of masses cf people, and that imponderable forces operate in 
economic affairs without respect for the hopes and ambitions cf men. At 
first glance it might appear-that such a postulate should be the source 
cf considerable popular derision, but perhaps only because the field of 
observation has been studiously ignored in modern times. At any rate, 
there appear to be several definite forces underlying the ebb and flow of 
the economic indices. 
It is the purpose, in this brochure and the companion volumes of the 
series, to examine considerable evidence bearing on economic causation. 
The observations contained in this brochure will deal entirely with the 
longer or major trends in American economic history. In the search for 
causes the prime interest will be, not to align the historical events with 
the coincident statistical business record and dovetail technical results 
with psychological effects; but to go deeper and attempt to trace those 
natural causes which appear to motivate the changes in mass psychology 
and result in given effects. After locating the source or cause we shall 
then examine the manner in which natural psychological cycles coincide 
with the cycles cf statistical business activity. 
In confining popular economic observations to a few cf the generalities 
like supply and demand, costs, available markets and distribution, labor, 
et cetera, the subject cf economics is principally concerned with statisti- 
cal results and psychological effects. Underlying causes cf such phenom- 
ena as the business cycle have only been studied in a superficial manner. 
This will probably continue to be the situation until the search for 
causes is taken out cf the field cf statistics and placed in the field cf 
psychology. At present, causes cf economic fluctuation are either con- 
sidered so remote and intangible that they cannot be defined, or else 
they are discarded as impractical. Economic effects, or rather statistical 
results, are paramount. We see economic effects all about us; we deal 
daily in effects, read cf them in the news, see them in moving pictures, 
and hear them from others. Yet in confining all cf our economic thinking 
to effects we are much like the remaining few who believe that the en- 
tire place cf medicine is to be strictly curative and disregard efforts cf 
anything preventive. Obviously, some approach toward analyzing eco- 
nomic causes is in order, if an economy is to be planned or any estimates 
are to be taken cf the future.

--- PAGE 9 of 143 ---

4 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
The debatable method of approach to economics, or the study of 
effects, might be excused by saying the average mind is so confined to 
narrow habit that a co-ordination of vast principles is impossible. It 
might be explained from the viewpoint cf the doctrine of free-will, which 
teaches that man is supreme, the source of both his success and his 
failure, and therefore the complete master of his fate. We might even 
offer the excuse that mankind is still in that stage cf a blundering evolu- 
tion where economic causes cannot be co-ordinated. But to present such 
explanations tie up with effects,again ignoring causes. 
Basic causes of economic effects are as intangible as life itself. They 
cannot be located with any cf the senses, such as hearing, seeing or tast- 
ing. They cannot be weighed by political votes, or religious followers. 
They cannot be found in laboratory test tubes, the statistical reviews of 
business activity, security prices, or in the opinions cf celebrities. When 
we search for causes in these sources, we are simply dealing with another 
phase cf economic effects. 
We cannot feel, see or taste the radio-frequency power that blankets 
the earth's atmosphere. Yet its presence can be proven with a radio re- 
ceiver. It is impossible to sense the force that shifts the ocean, effecting 
the tides. We have never been able to measure a mother's love for her 
child, and the attraction and repulsion that occurs between people. The 
effectsare usually obvious to the senses, but never the causes. 
Dealing almost exclusively with effects is the human habit. Probably 
ninety-five per cent of the people spend all of their time trying to change 
the effects about them. They attempt to change one situation only to 
meet another. It is often a case cf leaving one discomfort or distress for 
another. Perhaps a scant five per cent cf the people realize that to make 
any constructive change they must first locate a cause. It is in this search 
for causes that the minority find the seat cf power; by locating causes 
and then applying the power for desired effects. 
The basis of all causation in human affairs lies in the laws cf vibration 
in nature. When we step aside from these natural laws we leave the field 
of causation and turn back to the analysis cf effects, or the reflectors of 
causes. The modern developments in therapy; radio and electronics; 
sound, both music and noise; light and heat; indicate that all of us are 
entirely bound up in the laws of vibration. Feelings, and all action are 
vibrations. The key to our individual psychology, our mass psychology 
as a nation, and our entire economic life, is bound up with vibration. It 
is in this field of vibration that we are directing our observation cf eco- 
nomic causation, to try and locate the coincident effects which might be 
generated.

--- PAGE 10 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWO 
THE VIBRATION SPECTRUM 
Sound, light and heat are all forms cf vibration. Each field has its 
own spectrum or scale of vibration. Sound is an impulse cf air striking 
the organs of hearing with a perceptible effect. Light is that action 
wherein objects are made visible. Heat is another force, similar to sound 
and light, in that it has a rate cf vibration also. Each cf these natural 
actions have their spectra occupying niches in the huge vibrational 
spectrum of nature. 
Modern science indicates that all bodies, unless at the absolute zero 
cf temperature—assigned by physicists as minus 273 degrees Centigrade 
—emit vibrations. Most of these vibrations are not visible to the eye, 
sensitive to the touch or audible to the ear. The frequencies, or rates of 
vibration, vary from a few cycles per second to millions cf cycles per 
second and include everything from sound waves to gamma and cosmic 
rays. 
A crude illustration cf the huge vibration spectrum may be made by 
drawing a pencil line about a foot long. At the left end cf this line 
mark an (X). This point illustrates the rate cf vibration cf the musical 
note "B," four octaves below middle "C" on the piano scale, or thirty 
cycles per second. Move to the right on the pencil line about a half 
inch from (X) and mark (Y). This point represents a frequency of 
5,120 cycles per second, the high musical note "E," four octaves above 
middle "C." As the rate cf vibration rises above approximately 16,000 
cycles per second—the pitch cf some squeaks—it ceases to be audible 
to the human ear. We take this approximate half inch section on the 
nencil line to represent the sound spectrum niche cf the major vibra- 
tional scale. 
From the point (Y) move to the right on the pencil line—to establish 
the beginning cf the electro-magnetic spectrum—about three inches, 
marking the point as (Z). This point represents the beginning of the 
modern radio spectrum. Moving to the right on the pencil line another 
three inches will approximate the radio spectrum, this right hand point 
representing frequencies cf about sixty thousand kilocycles and wave- 
lengths cf five meters or less. 
Again move to the right on the pencil line, after leaving a gap cf 
about an inch to represent the lapping cf the short wave radio band and 
the frequencies cf the infra-red and heat rays, the center cf which 
represents the rate cf vibration of the color yellow, or approximately a 
rate cf vibration of 500,000,000,000,000 cycles per second. In this spec- 
trum is the frequency range where the human eye is able to directly 
detect the electro-magnetic vibrations we know as light and color. The 
eye continues this ability until the rate cf vibration increases above that 
of the color violet. 
Move to the right on the pencil line another quarter inch and mark

--- PAGE 11 of 143 ---

6 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
the point (A). This quarter inch section represents the ultra-violet ray 
spectrum on the edge cf the x-ray division. From this point (A) to the 
extreme right hand end cf the pencil line represents the several segments 
of; first, the x-raysj then the gamma rays; and finally, the cosmic rays. 
In the spectra cf gamma and cosmic rays the frequency is so tremendous 
that a huge line of figures would be necessary to represent the rate. 
The wave length at these frequencies is cf the order cf one ten thou- 
sandth cf one ten millionth of a millimeter or less. 
Observations indicate that the earth's atmosphere is permeated with 
high frequency radiation of tremendous penetrating power. Although 
this force is more intense at great heights than at the earth's surface, it 
is just as intense at night as during the day. At sea level this radiation 
breaks up about 1.4 atoms in every cubic centimeter cf air per second, so 
it cannot be denied that millions of atoms are broken up in every human 
body every second. This is the source of distinct biological and in turn, 
psychological, changes in people. Far more penetrating than any other 
type cf vibration it has-been found that the most penetrating portion of 
these rays will pass through sixteen feet cf lead. 
It is only very recently that an analysis cf the biological and psycho- 
logical effects of these rays has been attempted by exact science. How- 
ever, the effect of this energy has been observed by man for centuries. 
Simple physics illustrates with a prism how a small segment cf sun- 
light can be separated into the seven primary colors. On the angle of 
refraction of the sun-rays through the prism depends the particular 
color in the spectrum. Experiments indicate that a similar type of 
refraction process occurs through the planets in their relation to the Sun 
and Earth. Radiation on the surface of the Earth is composed of; first, 
the rays of the Sun which are refracted by the Earth's magnetism and 
atmosphere; second, the refracted rays cf the Sun, each changed in a 
particular manner through the angle in which they are reflected from 
the planets; and, the radiation of each planet. This condition indicates 
that the frequency of solar radiation is much broader than just the light 
and heat spectra, covering the entire electro-magnetic spectrum from 
radio waves to cosmic rays. 
We shall now proceed to examine the effects cf this radiation in the 
light cf economics and mass psychology.

--- PAGE 12 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
THE SUN SPOT CYCLE 
The Sun, as the center of the Earth's little niche in the Universe, is 
credited with being the source cf all cf our energy. The Sun is a star, 
although it is not the largest, or the brightest, or the hottest star, in the 
Universe. But it is the ruler cf the solar system cf which the Earth is 
one unit; and controls the motion of the Earth and all the other planets. 
On the surface cf the Sun, or its photosphere, often are seen dark 
spots, some cf which are many times larger than the Earth. The oc- 
currence cf these spots was noted by the Chinese long before Galileo 
used his telescope in 1610. Hale found that at its center a Sun-spot has 
the properties cf a huge bar magnet. Researches by Schwabe and then 
Wolf, which were followed by very systematic observations, show there 
.is an increase and then a decrease in Sun-spot totality with a "regular 
irregularity" cf about 11.2 years. The interval varies in a range cf about 
four years. The movenrrent from maximum to minimum averages about 
6.5 years, and the rise from minimum to maximum about 4 6 years. 
^ frrTbe extensive researches involving the business cycle, as indicated 
in the charted tabulation cf the statistics cf business activity over a 
long term cf years, there is a distinct relation between the periods of 
prosperity and depression and the Sun-spot cycle. The work financed 
by the Harvard committee on research in social sciences has resulted in 
tracing this correlation from the 17th century South Sea Bubble down 
to the present year. The last Sun-spot cycle began with a minimum of 
spots in 1923, a maximum in 1928-1929, and another minimum in 
1933-1934. Another maximum point is expected late in 1938. The 
general averages cf Sun-spots for the past 100 years are tabulated on 
the next page. Current technical and scientific data is obtainable 
through Science Service, Washington, D. C. 
A phenomena cf Sun-spots is that the measure cf solar radiation in 
the heat spectrum cf vibration shows an increase in the Sun's heat with 
an increase in the Sun-spot totality. Solar radiation at heat and light 
frequencies averages close to two horsepower per square meter on the 
Earth's surface. The solar energy constant is usually taken as 1.94 
calories. But when Sun-spots are at a minimum this value changes to 
about 1.92, and when Sun-spots are near a maximum the value averages 
1.96. My conclusion is that this variation in the energy constant affects 
the mass cf humanity biologically and therefore psychologically, in the 
manner reflected by the rise and fall cf the statistics cf business activity, 
or economic energy. 
Considerable work has been done in the field cf correlating rainfall 
and the Sun-spot cycle as a clue to factors in long range weather fore- 
casting. The effects of the cycle have been strikingly shown to coincide 
with tree ring phenomena. It has also been proven there is a coincidence 
between the amount cf ultra-violet radiation and Sun-spots. Even the

--- PAGE 13 of 143 ---

8 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
TABLE OF SUN-SPOT AVERAGES 
Year 
Average 
Year 
Average 
Year 
Average 
1837 
138.3 
1871 
111.2 
1905 
63.5 
1838 
103.2 
1872 
101.7 
1906 
53.3 
1839 
85.8 
1873 
66.3 
1907 
62.0 
1840 
63.2 
1874 
44.7 
1908 
48.5 
1841 
36.8 
1875 
17.1 
1909 
43.9 
1842 
24.2 
1876 
11.3 
1910 
18.6"* 
1843 
10.7 
1877 
12.3 
1911 
5.7 
1844 
15.0 
1878 
3.4 
1912 
3.6 
1845 
40.1 
1879 
6.0 
1913 
1.4 
1846 
61.5 
1880 
32.3 
1914 
9.6 
1847 
98.5 
1881 
54.3 
1915 
47.4 
1848 
124.3 
1882 
59.7 
1916 
55.4 
1849 
95.9 , 
1883 
63.7 
1917 
103.9 
1850 
66.5 
1884 
63.5 
1918 
80.6 
1851 
64.5 
1885 
52.2 
1919 
63.6 
1852 
54.2 
1886 
25.4 
1920 
38.7 
1853 
39.0 
1887 
13.1 
1921 
24.7 
1854 
20.6 
1888 
6.8 
1922 
14.7 
1855 
6.7 
1889 
6.3 
1923 
5.8 
1856 
4.3 
1890 
7.1 
1924 
16.7 
1857 
22.8 
1891 
35.6 
1925 
44.3 
1858 
54,8 
1892 
73.0 
1926 
63.9 
1859 
93.8 
1893 
84.9 
1927 
68.5 
1859 
93.8 
1893 
84.9 
1927 
68.5 
1860 
95.7 
1894 
78.0 
1928 
77.8 
1861 
77.2 
1895 
64.0 
1929 
65.0 
1862 
59.1 
1896 
41.8 
1930 
35.7 
1863 
44.0 
1897 
26.2 
1931 
21.2 
1864 
47.0 
1898 
26.7 
1932 
11.1 
1865 
30.5 
1899 
12.1 
1933 
5.7 
1866 
16.3 
1900 
9.5 
1934 
1867 
7.3 
1901 
2.7 
1868 
37.3 
1902 
5.0 
1869 
73.9 
1903 
24.4 
i R7n 
139 1 
lonr 
A1) A 
marked variation in the pelts cf fur-bearing animals, checked over a 
long term of years, coincides with the Sun-spot cycle; another biological 
effect cf Sun-spot phenomena. 
Although the business cycle and the Sun-spot cycle coincide very 
closely, there have been several lags or discrepancies which science has 
been unable to satisfy itself on. The factor cf planetary refraction seems 
to have been ignored. Yet if we take cognizance cf the planetary revolu- 
tions in our solar system and check the varying positions in relation to 
each other, to the Sun and the Earth, the discrepancies are plain, and 
explainable by planetary angles and positions.

--- PAGE 14 of 143 ---

THE SUN SPOT CYCLE 
9 
Apparently then, we cannot use the Sun-spot phenomena alone in 
forecasting economic probabilities, but include observations cf planetary 
cycles and planetary interaction also. We shall approach this field in the 
next chapter.

--- PAGE 15 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
THE PLANETARY CYCLES 
Since the ages cf antiquity philosophers have viewed the skies. They 
charted the heavens in relation to,a belt or huge circle whose middle 
line is the ecliptic or Sun's path. The signs cf the zodiac are the animal 
and human forms which seem to be reproduced in the constellations 
within this belt. During the 4th century the intellectual zodiac was 
computed. It employs the names cf the constellations reckoned from the 
vernal equinox, each thirty degrees being one sign, irrespective oT the 
relative positions cf the corresponding constellations. In these observa- 
tions we use this intellectual zodiac to observe planetary positions and 
interaction. 
The constellation^, through the phenomena cf the precession cf the 
equinoxes, gradually slip back through the signs at the rate oT50" per 
year, or one whol^'~5fgirTir'27T60~Tears. 'The enSreTeyofution cf tfie 
constellations"occupies~a"i^ 25,920 years. present time the__ 
nodETpomFofthe'cirde"cf cotlgteirations is leaving the sigrTPisceTand, 
m the next several years, will enfeFThe sign Aquarius! Pisces is indica- 
tive of water, religious aspiration, confinement and restraint. The past 
2000 years cf history marked exploration by water, the development of 
chemistry, medicine, steam and water power; a new religion gripped the 
hearts cf men that aspired to make man in the image cf his god. In- 
tolerance and discipline--a form cf restraint — in political, economic and 
religious thinking was the basis cf developing the greatest period cf 
human initiative in known history. 
Aquarius is an air sign that typifies aspirations cf unity and the 
establishment cf the bond cf mutual interests. Its effects are a lack of 
continuity and stability, but tenacity and decided dependence. The 
symbol is brotherhood, being mentally dominant in the idea cf social 
interdependence with a dislike cf all caste systems in human relation- 
ships. Where Pisces is water Aquarius is air and ether; and it follows 
that the approaching cycle cf the Aquarian Age will stress affairs cf the 
air and ether, such as aeronautics; and those things pertaining to light, 
heat and electronics. At the same time the entire political and social 
aspects of society will change. 
The movements cf the planets around the Sun are traced through 
the zodiac, and computations cf their daily positions are published in 
table form called ephemerides. The time cf a complete revolution cf a 
planet around the Sun is termed a planetary year. The earth year is the 
standard cf measurement. The approximate periods cf planetary revolu- 
tions are; 
VAliA CtJL w. 
Earth — 365days7hrs. Jupiter—11 yrs 314 
Mercury — 88 days Saturn — 29 yrs 167 d 
5' —224 days Uranus—84 years 
-1 year 322 days Neptune — 164 yrs 16' 
Moon—28 days around the Earth

--- PAGE 16 of 143 ---

THE PLANETARY CYCLES 
11 
Ancient astrology was principally confined to the purposes of divina- 
tion, or, foretelling specific events by means cf a map of the heavens 
drawn at the moment of broaching the question. In modern times the 
scientific researcher entirely ignores the practice cf interpreting events 
from these horary figures. Ancient fatalism has become tinctured with 
free-will, and the modern study cf planetary interaction and cosmic 
vibration is a science that starts where ancient astrology left off. 
This new science is thoroughly cognizant with all cf the advances and 
discoveries cf modern science. Its development is based on these dis- 
coveries. But it fully recognizes the line cf demarcation between the 
fatalism cf the Ancients and the doctrine cf free-will and ego-centric 
perspective, — persisted in by current schools cf psychology. It is the 
undiscovered key to psychology, for it shows that man, individually and 
en masse, is impelled along paths that are definitely related to planetary 
and other phases of solar radiation. 
In checking ernnomip statistics cf the business cycle w'tb rhp pprinffo 
when the major_sloffi_rnoving planets, Saturn, Uranus and Jupiter, are 
ninettrt^f^hriphimdred eigTittr Ycgrees apartln the zodiac, they "are 
found to coincide with economic depression. But when the same planets 
are sixty or one hundred and twenty degrees apart (in the zodiac) they 
coincide with periods cf prosperity. This phenomena is discussed in 
detail in a companion brochure. 
The earth signs cf the zodiac, Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn, have 
always been closely coupled to American political and financial life. 
The passage of planets through these signs in their revolutions tie in 
with major events in a startling manner. For the first time in United 
States history Jupiter and Saturn began to meet in conjunction in earth 
signs just after 1840. Regularly every twenty years since a conjunction 
of these two planets has occurred in these earth signs, timing periods cf 
political upheaval and new agitation, and interest; — in currency, na- 
tional credit and financial matters. 
Every President, since the inception cf these conjunctions in earth 
signs, who was elected in these periods, died in office. In 1840 Harrison 
was elected and died in office. In 1860 Lincoln was elected. He died in 
office. Garfield was elected in 1880 and he died in office. In 1900 it 
was McKinley and in 1920 it was Harding. In 1940 it was Roosevelt; 
despite increasing disabilities he persisted to re-election in 1944. And 
in IQfin the gpqnpnce continued with Kennedy.5" 
Wild-cat bank notes, following the panic cf 1847-1838, became the 
"red-dog" variety until agitation for intlation placed all tlie banks cf 
Michigan in receivership in 1842. In 1861 federal credit was such that I 
non-interest bearing notes were or3ered, starting the greenback diffi- 
culties. After the veto cf the inflationary Bland-Allison Act in ISTSp I 
silver standard was agitated in the depression cf 1882 to 1885. Credit 
problems were so great in 1902-03 panic occurred. After 1920 cheap 
money and credit was agitated and the Agricultural Act cf 1923 re- 
sulted. 
* This sentence in this 1978 edition brings the cycle to date.

--- PAGE 17 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FIVE 
THE URANUS CYCLE 
Qf the planets comprising the same solar system as the Earth the 
recently discovered planet Pluto has the largest orbit, taking the longest 
time to go around the Sun. Neptune is next in order, taking approxi- 
mately 164 years, 167 days to go around the Sun. The movements of 
these planets have coincided with epochal changes in the psychology 
cf the people, but just now we are more concerned with the manner in 
which Uranus has been prominent in American economic history. 
Uranus was recognized as being in the heavens in ancient times, but 
it was not located, and astronomically discovered until 1781 by. William 
Herschel. It was first seen in the sign Gemini, and is astologically at- 
tributed to the rulership cf Aquarius. A^TC . u 
The revolution of Uranus is 84 years, qr^about,seyeiUVears m eao^ 
sign cf the zodiac. When at sensitive angles with other planets, or m 
sensitive points ot tEeTzodiac, its effects are sudden and radical changes, 
secrecy, plotting, estrangements, chaos, and action engendered by an 
underlying progressiveness. Its general effects generate humanitarian 
and altruistic endeavors in the positive side, but its negative side 
generates fanaticism with rather riotous and eccentric activity, disorder 
and inexplicibly sudden changes cf fortune. Its revolutions cf 84 years 
peculiarly align with American history. 
The vast researches in history during the past two decades have 
clarified many heretofore difficult points. Until recently history was 
viewed principally as a numerical co-ordination cf events with the 
calendar. Now we have come to realize that cycles cf history operate 
in much the same manner as cycles cf business, each cycle being an 
epoch. Many notable studies in the co-ordination and sweep cf the 
cycles cf history have been presented in recent years, the "March cf 
Democracy" by James Trueslow Adams, and the "Outline cf History" 
by H. G. Wells being popular examples. The monumental work cf 
Spengler, in "The Decline cf the West," even goes a step farther by co- 
ordinating centuries cf human history into a huge connected skein, with 
each era separated but inter-related with the next. 
Few historians, however, have taken any note cf the cycles cf ap- 
proximately eighty-four years that have been so closely identified with 
American life. Whether the newness of Western civilization on the 
North American continent has prevented the taking cf such a major 
economic perspective cf its history, or whether broad perspectives are 
considered cf little value is a debatable affair. At any rate, and in spite 
of many important intervening events, there have been distinct eco- 
nomic and social cycles cf 84 years each. The manner in which these 
cycles align with the cycles cf Uranus has reached a point where it has 
ceased to be coincidence. 
If our historians are correct, Columbus landed on what is now known

--- PAGE 18 of 143 ---

THE URANUS CYCLE 
13 
as the West Indies group of islands in 1492. From 1492 to 1520 Spain 
gave little attention to the new land except to establish settlements for 
exploration and trading purposes in the West Indies. The main land was 
practically ignored. Their search was primarily for gold and treasure, 
and a new route between Europe and the Far East. Balboa crossed 
Panama and reached the Pacific in 1513, while Ponce de Leon landed 
in Florida in the same year. In 1520 Magellan found a strait near the 
southern end cf South America, which settled the question cf the po- 
sition of the America's in relation to Europe and Asia. But it was in 
the 1520's before any settlement or colonization cf the mainland was 
attempted by white men. 
In 1523-.and 1524 Florida, the territory which now reaches from 
Florida to Labrador, attracted the first serious attention cf Spain. Late 
in 1523 the first formal grant cf conquest and settlement was issued. 
The first settlement was launched under d'Ayllon, not far from the same 
spot on which Jamestown was later founded. 
Astronomical calculations indicate that the planet Uranus crngwd 
the 8th and 9th degreeiTof tEe zodiacal sign GermnTin the year 1523  
coinciding with the first settlement cf the lana which now comprises 
part of the United States. 
In the 84 years between 1523 and 1607, rn 
to the 8th and 9th degrees cf Gemini, many changes occurred on tbp 
North American Continent, but in the light cf history this period was a 
distinct epoch in itselt. 
Just after the beginning cf the 17th century a troublesome depression 
gripped Europe. Thousands were without employment or even a place 
to live. The proposal to colonize America met with great favor. Eliza- 
beth was dead. The Stuarts were in the ascendancy and Europe was 
launching a period of fateful constitutional changes which was sinister 
and chaotic. 
So it was in the latter part cf April, 1607, the first English settlement 
was made in America at Jamestown, Virginia. Notwithstanding the 
shortcomings of the settlers, their tremendous difficulties and their im- 
practicality in adjusting themselves to a new land, there is no mistaking 
that this settlement and year was the beginning cf the 2nd epoch in 
American economic history. It also began a new Uranus cvcle. 
In 1691 Uranus had again traygled through its 84 year orbit, return- 
ing^agam"to the 8th~and QtETdegrees of Gemini. Since 1607 the New 
England colonies had developed, Maryland was a ofovince and organiza- 
tion had entered Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Carolina. But when 
the 1690's began civil war and revolution embroiled England, laying-^ 
the seeds of political and religious dissension in the American colonies. 
Conditions became so intense in the colonies by 1691 that a general 
upheaval ensued, which Woodrow Wilson, in his five volume "History cf 
the American people," calls "The Revolution." This deluge ended the 
2nd epoch of American economic life which began with the founding cf 
Jamestown in 1607. The 1690's saw the fall and burning of Jamestown, 
the fall cf Plymouth, Massachusetts and Maryland, and the institution

--- PAGE 19 of 143 ---

14 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
of new political currents and economic ideas, coinciding with the begin- 
ning cf another new cycle cf Uranus. 
In 177S. 84 years after 1691. IJranns again returned to the Rth and 
9th degrees of Gemini. In the interim the seeds cf American inde- 
pendence had been sown an3~on May 20th, 1775, a Declaration cf 
Independence was issued from the Mecklenburg, Virginia Convention. 
But the new era cf independence did not formally begin until Uranus 
reached 8 degrees 51 minutes cf Gemini at 20 minutes past noon on 
July 4th, 1776 in Philadelphia; when the final Declaration cf Inde- 
pendence was signed. Indubitably coinciding with the new cycle of 
Uranus, the fourth epoch in American economic life began. 
Late in 1859, 84 years after the Declaration of Independence, Uranus 
had again returned to the 8th and 9th degrees cf Gemini. In_the interim 
a new union ot states developed and multiplied, bulTvioIent dissension 
had been gaining ground on several major questions ever since the 
1820's. By 1850 close to an armed division cf affairs developed, which 
became an actuality in Civil War in 1861. On December 20th, 1860, 
South Carolina secededrrom the union. The planet Uranus was in 9 
degrees 17 minutes cf Gemini on that day. 
On February 4th, 1861 the provisional constitution cf the Confederacy 
was framed at Montgomery, Alabama. Uranus was retrograding in 8 
degrees 6 minutes cf Gemini at the moment. The first armed conflict cf 
the war took place in early April 1861 at Fort Sumter. Uranus was then 
in 9 degrees 4 minutes cf Gemini. 
A reference has already been made to the conjunctions cf Jupiter 
and Saturn beginning to appear in earth signs, after 1840, at approxi- 
mately 20 year intervals. The conjunction following the presidential 
election cf 1860 occurred on October 21st, 1861 in 18 degrees 22 
minutes of Virgo, although between September and November 1861 it 
was very near a constant conjunction. 
At the time cf this conjunction period cf 1861 the state cf federal 
credit became serious. Tax receipts from the Southern states were no 
longer sources cf income, while the expense cf the war was more than 
the Treasury could stand. In July 1861 only 25 cents cf each dollar 
spent in government came from taxes. The balance was borrowed. 
Following an appeal to the banks for $150 millions in August the 
Treasury could not pay creditors in coin and the country went on a 
paper basis. Between that time and 1863 close to a half billion in 
greenbacks was issued while gold went to huge premiums. The problem 
became intensely difficult through the sudden death of Lincoln, when 
Reconstruction plans and the efforts toward credit stabilization were 
unexpectedly transferred to Vice President Johnson, a Democrat in 
what had been a Republican Administration. So without any doubt 
the crossing cf the 8th and 9th degrees cf Gemini by Uranus again co- 
incided with the end cf one epoch and the beginning of a new fifth 
epoch in American economic history; intensified by the appearance of 
the conjunction cf Jupiter and Saturn in Virgo. 
From 1859-1860 to 1943-1944, when Uranus will again traverse.

--- PAGE 20 of 143 ---

THE URANUS CYCLE 
IS 
theJSth and 9th decrees of Gemini is 84 years. Intensifying circum- 
gtances at that tfme will jpc Saturn ill Cfeffllfll bfelVVfefeli May 9th, 1942 
and June 20th, 1944, following a umjuiiUkiii if Saturn and Uranus in 
29 degrees of Taurus on May 3rd, 1942, and a conjunction of Jupiter 
and Saturn in Taurus (an earth sign) in the early part cf February 
1941. It is unqualifiedly the most momentous period so far encountered 
in American history.

--- PAGE 21 of 143 ---

CHAPTER SIX 
SOME CONCLUSIONS 
Any recapitulation cf the observations in the foregoing material must 
first take cognizance cf the fact that these cycles are not compelling. If 
appointed leadership could and would take stock cf these phenomena 
any long range observations could be couched in a pre-adjustment to the 
reverberations. On the other hand, the very complexities cf the* head- 
long welter cf public opinion and political expediency seems to bear 
down as an irremovable force or process cf evolution. Preventive pre- 
scriptions have no place here, however. 
Those practiced in the habit cf waiting to see debatable economic 
effects may conclude that all this data is a unique chain cf coincidences 
which have no bearing on the future. But let us maintain a distinction 
between that which consists cf economic effect and that which may be 
cause. 
The first conclusion is that the period between the World War and 
the late 1950's marks a cyclical transition from th^ Piscean Age o£4he- 
last 2000 years into the Aquarian Age cf the next 2000 years. The dead 
center cf the transition computes as the decade 61 iy4L) to rtso. 
Second, the fifth 84 year cycle in American economic life will end 
in 1943 and a new 84 year cycle begin in 1944, a transition heretofore 
accompanied by tremendous and chaotic circumstances. 
Third, a Sun-spot maximum is expected in 1938, and a minimum in 
1943 and 1944, which is one contribution to the anticipation that busi- 
ness indices will attain a high in 1938 and a low in 1943 and 1944. 
Fourth, a conjunction cf Jupiter and Saturn again occurs in an earth 
sign, this time in 1941, following the election cf 1940, suggesting the 
possibility cf a repetition cf an unexpected collapse cf executive power 
by 1945. 
Fifth, a phenomena cf the Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions in earth signs 
is the manner in which they have timed a new interest in problems cf 
banking, credit and the expansion cf credit. When accompanied by 
Uranian influences, as occurred following 1860, necessitous inflationary 
expedients developed. Between 1940 and 1945 the combined influences 
are far more potent than at any time in American history, including the 
Civil War period. The conclusion is that the aftermath cf the credit 
expansion cf the late 1930's will form the beginning cf money problems 
timed for the early 1940's; but, that necessitous and actual inflation 
will not be probable before 1941 begins. The mass psychology that dis- 
counts inflation is cf an entirely different order than the fear ridden 
psychology which accompanies actual inflation. There is a vast differ- 
ence between actual inflation and credit expansion. The late 1930's 
appear to mark credit expansion, while the early 1940's point to a 
necessitous inflationary interval. 
The general conclusion is that the business indices will reflect a

--- PAGE 22 of 143 ---

SOME CONCLUSIONS 
17 
general upward trend from the lows of 1932 to a high late in 1938. A 
recession is then expected to begin, with the "normal" downward trend 
into 1943 and 1944, violently, but only temporarily, interrupted in the 
inflationary period of 1941 and 1942. After 1943 and 1944 the founda- 
tion for major readjustments actually start, so that by 1950 and 1951 
another, and greater, epoch in American economic life begins; coinciding 
with a new 84 year Uranus cycle, plus the 2000 year and long awaited 
Aquarian Age. 
ADDENDA 1978; World War II fades into history but its deep 
effects have become more and more ominous to the traditions cf Ameri- 
can life. Standards cf value, reduced deficit inflation, traditional moral- 
ity and confidence in the future have been in erosion. The convenience 
and miracle of debt credit under the pressures cf war seems to have 
gripped the populace to get a share and elect those who promise it. 
Inflation is turning from the glow cf prosperity to the ogre cf deep- 
seated inflation. This heritage cf the 1940's includes the national shift 
from the concept of independence to that cf internationalism which was 
given birth in the form cf the United Nations. After 1950-1951 the 
promised new epoch did begin even though viewed askance now. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Chapters 2 & 3 
"Principles cf Radio Communication" by Morecroft. 
"Below Ten Meters " by James Millen and R. S. Kruse. 
"Electronics" issue cf April 1932. 
"Life's Place in the Cosmos" by Hiram Percy Maxim. Appleton 1933. 
"Astronomy" by John Charles Duncan, Ph.D. Harpers 1930. 
"The Universe Around Us" by James Jeans. MacMillan 1929. 
"Earth, Radio and Stars" by Harlan T. Stetson. McGraw-Hill 1934. 
"Astro-Economic Research" by L. J. Jensen. Astrological Bulletina Issues 
198 & 199. 
Chapter 4 
"Astrological Key Words" by Manly P. Hall. David McKay 1931. 
"New Dictionary cf Astrology" by Sepharial. David McKay 1928. 
"Lilly's Astrology "by Wilham Lilly. G. Bell and Sons Ltd London 1919. 
Chapter 5 
"History of the American People" by Woodrow Wilson. Live vols. Harpers 
1901 1902. 
"Florida—Old and New" by Dan. Putnam's 1934. 
"Romantic and Historic Florida" by A Hyatt Verrill. Dodd, Mead 1935. 
"Roger Wilhams" by James E. Ernst. MacMillan 1932. 
"A Century cf Banking Progress" by Wm O, Scroggs, Ph.D. Doubleday, 
Page 1924.

--- PAGE 23 of 143 ---

Section II 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC 
INTERPRETATION 
A MUNDANE ASTROLOGY NOTEBOOK 
FUNDAMENTALS OF ECONOMIC FORECASTING 
Copyright 1938 by L. J. Jensen 
All Rights Reserved 
(NOTE: Chapters 1 to 8 inclusive; material to follow is all new for this edition.)

--- PAGE 24 of 143 ---

FOREWORD 
The scientific world has come far since that day when the French 
Academy cf Science examined Edison's first phonograph and pronounced 
it a clever hoax and product cf ventriloquism. But as great as the me- 
chanical and electrical advances have been, it is only recently that more 
than desultory attention has been paid to astrological premises. The 
average individual fears that which he does not understand. The air of 
mystery surrounding astrology simply accentuates this intellectual fear. 
The normal "protective" reaction is then derision, and sometimes, casti- 
gation. Until recently this "protective" derision toward astro-science 
tenets has persisted with almost fanatical zeal. Now, however—for with 
knowledge develops understanding — serious consideration involves the 
subject. 
The enormous findings and progress in radio and electronics, aero- 
dynamics, weather cycles, et cetera, during recent years, has aroused a 
new interest in the related astrological premises which have been the 
common knowledge cf researchers since the days cf the Chaldeans and 
Egyptians. It is part cf our rapidly moving epoch that much cf this 
ancient material be correlated and clarified so that the modem layman 
can both approach and understand the field. 
This manual makes no pretense cf being either an encyclopedia, a 
complete compendium, or even an introductory dictionary cf astrologi- 
cal tenets and practice. Such a work would include a great deal cf the 
philosophical and scientific works cf history, plus dozens cf volumes cf 
observation in astrological material. This work is, however, the out- 
growth cf a need for a ready reference book which would afford the 
salient working or everyday basis for interpreting Cosmic forces from 
ephemerides. It is the result cf innumerable methods cf procedure that 
were carefully tested in over fifteen years cf observation and study. 
Several methods not included herein, though quite widely used, must be 
rejected for both unscientific and practical test reasons. However, fifteen 
years cf intensive research is far too short a time in which to formulate 
even one dogmatic postulate on the invalidity cf any method in this 
gigantic field cf observation. We are barely on the threshold cf astrologi- 
cal application to economic, political, social and individual maladjust- 
ments with natural laws and forces. The material herein is therefore a 
foundation for practical procedure. 
Although general economics long since applied detailed observational 
concentration to mass psychology, nationalities, and group movements; 
and then formulated individual reactions through group stimuli, environ- 
mental contacts, and heredity, to the potentialities and possibilities of 
one person, astrology has blandly given little attention to anything but 
the individual. This cart before the horse procedure has obviously re- 
tarded any general understanding cf the subject, and, at the same time.

--- PAGE 25 of 143 ---

22 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
prevented an intensive and organized research into its principles. When 
a business organization prepares to open a new territory they carefully 
survey the new field for not only the possible demand for their goods, 
but whether large numbers cf the population are sufficiently prosperous 
to buy. F the territory is generally prosperous then the average in- 
habitant is prosperous. 
The detailed attention to natal astrology, or the analysis cf the indi- 
vidual, has tended researchers to overlook the extreme importance in a 
geographical location and its astrological portents. It is banal to suggest 
a field for electrical refrigerators north cf the Arctic Circle, yet it is 
almost as trivial to insist that the individual is not governed by the group 
and location where he lives. Therefore Mundane or National Astro- 
Analysis is the first and most important part cf astrological interpreta- 
tion. Without it distinct progress in natal astrology would continue to 
remain scientifically fragmentary. 
In spite cf the importance cf the mundane field there are only a hand- 
ful cf three or four published works on the subject, although the ma- 
terials on personal genitures run into hundreds cf volumes. This is 
probably a normal sequence to every individuals' love cf self being first 
in his or her thinking. Each person is interested in his tendencies, his 
destiny, his opportunities, and his chances for finding mental co-ordina- 
tion and happiness. Yet in these days when the world is attempting to 
cast off the remnants cf a Stone Age individualism in preparation for 
the New Age cf co-operation, it is realized that the Not-Self—the cir- 
cumstances around us—is cf greater importance than the Self—our own 
personal ego. So it is that the mundane field cf astrology is both the 
key to national events and individual attainment. 
This brief brochure attempts to present thoroughly tested and practi- 
cal methods cf procedure correlated into as simplified formulae as the 
present state cf the art permits. No new theories or startling departures 
from recognized fundamentals are suggested, even though many cf the 
currently popular theories have been tested and so far found wanting 
in results. The layman whose astrological experience has been confined 
to a few Sun-Sign readings and a perusal cf a few magazines is invited 
to carefuly study the recent brochure, "Major Trends in American Eco- 
nomics," in order to grasp the fundamentals involved in interpretive 
work. 
I am gratefully indebted to a vast number cf authors and corre- 
spondents throughout the world in aligning the procedure herein. The 
interchange and sifting cf the multitude of ideas and premises received 
through these contacts has been cf inestimable value. Probably the 
only original feature cf the entire work lies in the correlation cf the 
methods of procedure. Credit could well be given to a list cf researchers 
and authors too numerous to append. However, I am particularly grate- 
ful to Mr. George J. McCormack, not only as a fellow researcher in the 
American Academy cf Astrologians, and the voluminous mass cf data 
we have discussed in the last several years, but for a part cf the radix 
figure material which forms such a vital part cf the data included herein.

--- PAGE 26 of 143 ---

FOREWORD 
23 
It is mildly probable that this material may come to the attention of 
others than researchers quite conversant with astrological procedure, 
practice and fundamentals. T o these, it should be reminded, that astro- 
logical interpretation is an art rather than an exact science. It deals 
with the entire pattern of human life, from world economics and religion 
to every detail of individual life. Expect far more from the subject than 
has yet been attained by the combined efforts cf governments, politics, 
industry and finance in heavily subsidized natural phenomena research, 
but don't expect the impossible. Medical science is still fifty per cent 
guess work, the administration cf governments continues to be princi- 
pally dependent on political emotion, while orthodox economics has 
made slight progress in coping with the maladjustments cf human life. 
Astro-science has a far better record to offer, in spite cf the situation 
that research into its scientific postulates is yet in its infancy, but allow 
for some interpretive error. 
Kansas City, November 1935 
L. J. Jensen

--- PAGE 27 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
MUNDANE RULERS HIPS 
Tradition teaches that the signs cf the zodiac, the symbols cf planets 
and the earthly influences cf both, were a heavenly revelation to man 
from the dark ages cf the past. Since the time cf the Chaldeans the 
fundamental traditions cf astrological practice have persisted unchanged. 
However, since the tremendous strides in astronomy, electrical appli- 
cations, and aeronautics, in the last half a century, a new depth of 
understanding has become applied to the ancient premises cf stellar 
science. Accordingly, a new foundation for mundane astrology interpre- 
tation is developing. 
Mundane astrology is the study cf cosmic forces in relation to the 
activity, events and circumstances cf countries, cities and groups of 
people. It is astrological economics; or, astro-economics, for purposes 
cf brevity. 
The maior problem in astro-economics has been the allocation of 
zodiacal and planetary rulerships so as to co-ordinate the pnsitinnH of 
the asirai bodies W it 11 a specinc iatitude and longitude on fHe"earth's 
surface. A nuiuberUf earnest researchers have developed several meth- 
ods ct co-ordination, but a complete simplified synthesis has never been 
offered. The work cf Johndro in "The Earth in the Heavens," Cotmsil 
in the "CyclicLocality Dial" and "X Marks My Place," and Sepharial in 
the "Theorv cf Geodectic Eauivalents" bear both the necessitv for care- 
ful examination and profound respect. The thesis developed does much 
to clarify the entire problem. 
However, the problem does not end with sign rulerships. 11 includes a 
difficulty with the two-sign rulerships cf Mercury, Venus and Mars that 
are one cf the problems handed down from antiquity. These two ele- 
ments cf the rulership problem have probably been the greatest deter- 
rents to astro-economic interpretation progress. 
The people cf the present civilization appear to be members of a Fifth 
Race that have inhabited the earth. The divisions cf the Zodiac as 
viewed by this Race locates the sign Leo in the fifth segment cf the 
Zodiac. Leo, the fifth sign, is ruled by the Sun. And the Sun is the 
center of the planetary system cf which the earth is a part. The othe'- 
planets are attributed to govern, or rule, the signs following the sign 
Leo in the order cf their distance from the Sun. viz. Mercurv rules Virgo. 
Venus Libra, Mars Scorpio, Jupiter nw—^Bsturn Capricorn, 
J ranus Aquarius, and Neptune Pisces. 
Unfnrecently the rulerships ended there, although the Moon has 
always been attributed to cancer in modern times, while Aries suggested 
Mars, Venus Taurus, and Gemini Mercury. However, in my own prac- 
tice there have been repeated circumstances which indicated that more 
than Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon involved Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini and Cancer. 
In 1930 the planet called Pluto was located. Its revolution around the

--- PAGE 28 of 143 ---

26 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of 
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of 
the sign Aries. Then during the course cf time three more planets, to 
assume rulerships cf Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As 
Pluto has two times the revolution cf Neptune and Neptune is about 
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will 
probably have a revolution period cf about 660 years, and so on. When 
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership cf the Moon will then 
revert to Pars Fortuna. 
In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much 
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury 
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions, 
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves cf the principal 
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in- 
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is 
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler 
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler cf Aries, Venus 
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler cf Taurus, and so 
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting 
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section. 
But the problem cf aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and 
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a 
multitude cf attempts have been published on the subject, some involv- 
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others 
simply philosophical conjecture. All cf them have a basis in fact, de- 
pending on a particular approach, yet none cf them have worked con- 
sistently for me. After a great deal cf effort, however, the problem 
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis- 
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is 
amply explained by Alan Leo in his "Casting the Horoscope" although 
he seems to miss the application. 
In the 1917 Yearbook cf the American Academy cf Astrologians 
Llorence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the 
Equator and placed 0° cf Taurus at the longitude cf the Pyramid of 
Gizeh. The signs cf the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular 
order. The Pyramid is located at 31° O?1/^' East Longitude. Voluminous 
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the 
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some cf these items are available 
in "A Miracle in Stone" by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents 
only a small part cf the material. The signs are located as follows: 
0° Aries - 1° 07 VY EAST Long. 0° Libra - 178° 52 VY WEST 
O "Taurus 31'07%' " " 0° Scorpio 148052 1/2/ " 
O"Gemini 61° 07 Vz' " " 0° Sagittarius 118° 52 VY " 
0,<Cancer 91° 07 VY " " 0° Capricorn 88° 52 VY " 
O0Leo 121° 07 VY " " 0° Aquarius 58" 52 VY " 
O 'Virgo 151° 07 1/2' " " 0° Pisces 28° 52 VY " 
From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

--- PAGE 29 of 143 ---

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 
27 
belt formed by the earfh's orbit around the Sun. It has none cf the ir- 
regularity cf the constellations and it is the actual zodiac cf geocentric 
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac cf the Constellations; 
when we are thinking in terms cf the Universe in relation to the preces- 
sion cf the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown 
period left 0° cf Aries and now lies somewhere between 28" cf Aries and 
8° to 10° cf Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as 
it was several thousands cf years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris 
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0° 
Aries cf the Zodiac cf the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of 
the planets geocentrically instead cf heliocentrically. The actual zodiac 
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al- 
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership 
as it always has had; but, when we go outside cf our solar system to com- 
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac cf the Constellations which 
is a matter cf precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler- 
ships mundanly. 
During a period of ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing 
and recrossing forty-six states cf the United States and four Canadian 
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made cf the probable 
ruling degrees cf cities and towns. Every type of constellation co- 
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to 
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina- 
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion cf Miss Bar- 
nett's was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144, 
or 12 times 12, each cf the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub- 
divisions of 21/2', and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca- 
tion the first 2 Va 0 sub-division cf each sign be allotted to Taurus instead 
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay 
in a rather distant occult point. 
In some cf the Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in 
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some cf the esoteric phases cf the 
Dwadasamsas, orTVa0 divisions cf the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis- 
piece of Alan Leo's "Esoteric Astrology" for this chart). According to 
this mettiod of~strtirgtvit»'iijn, aacf there are many occuit and scientific 
reasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas of each sign is held by the same 
sign; the first sub-division cf Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision cf 
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major 
zodiacal divisions cf the world and the other the major and sub-divisions 
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that 
this co-ordination works; always. 
T o compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location 
add 1" TV2' to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign). 
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30". The first gives the 
number cf signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and 
the second is the degree of rulership on the M. C. of the location. In the 
Table cf Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column 
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

--- PAGE 30 of 143 ---

26 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of 
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of 
the sign Aries. Then during the course cf time three more planets, to 
assume rulerships cf Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As 
Pluto has two times the revolution cf Neptune and Neptune is about 
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will 
probably have a revolution period cf about 660 years, and so on. When 
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership cf the Moon will then 
revert to Pars Fortuna. 
In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much 
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury 
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions, 
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves cf the principal 
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in- 
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is 
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler 
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler cf Aries, Venus 
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler of Taurus, and so 
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting 
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section. 
But the problem cf aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and 
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a 
multitude cf attempts have been published on the subject, some involv- 
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others 
simply philosophical conjecture. All cf them have a basis in fact, de- 
pending on a particular approach, yet none cf them have worked con- 
sistently for me. After a great deal cf effort, however, the problem 
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis- 
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is 
amply explained by Alan Leo in his "Casting the Horoscope" although 
he seems to miss the application. 
In the 1917 Yearbook cf the American Academy cf Astrologians 
Llorence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the 
Equator and placed 0° cf Taurus at the longitude cf the Pyramid cf 
Gizeh. The signs cf the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular 
order. The Pyramid is located at 3 1° OWa'East Longitude. Voluminous 
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the 
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some cf these items are available 
in "A Miracle in Stone" by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents 
only a small part cf the material. The signs are located as follows: 
0° Aries ■ 1° 07 Va' EAST Long. 0° Libra - 178° 52 Vz' WEST 
O"Taurus 31'07%' " " 0° Scorpio " 
0° Gemini 61° 07 Va' " " 0° Sagittarius 118" 52 Va' " 
0° Cancer 91o071/a' " " 0° Capricorn 88052 1/a' " 
0° Leo 121'07 Va' " " 0° Aquarius 58052 1/a' " 
O"Virgo 151'07%' " " O'Eisces 28° 52 Va' " 
From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

--- PAGE 31 of 143 ---

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 
27 
belt formed by the earth's orbit around the Sun. It has none cf the ir- 
regularity cf the constellations and it is the actual zodiac of geocentric 
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac cf the Constellations; 
when we are thinking in terms of the Universe in relation to the preces- 
sion cf the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown 
period left 0° cf Aries and now lies somewhere between 28° cf Aries and 
8° to 10° cf Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as 
it was several thousands cf years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris 
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0° 
Aries cf the Zodiac cf the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of 
the planets geocentrically instead cf heliocentrically. The actual zodiac 
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al- 
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership 
as it always has had; but, when we go outside cf our solar system to com- 
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac cf the Constellations which 
is a matter cf precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler- 
ships mundanly. 
During a period cf ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing 
and recrossing forty-six states of the United States and four Canadian 
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made cf the probable 
ruling degrees cf cities and towns. Every type cf constellation co- 
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to 
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina- 
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion cf Miss Bar- 
nett's was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144, 
or 12 times 12, each cf the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub- 
divisions cf 21/2,, and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca- 
tion the first 2%° sub-division of each sign be allotted to Taurus instead 
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay 
in a rather distant occult point. 
In some cf the-Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in 
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some cf the esoteric phases cf the 
Dwadasamsas, olTVi0 divisions cf the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis- 
piece cf Alan Leo's "Esoteric Astrology" for this chart). According to 
this method ofsub-di vision, atlcf there are many occult and scientific 
reasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas cf each sign is held by the same 
sign; the first sub-division cf Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision cf 
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major 
zodiacal divisions of the world and the other the major and sub-divisions 
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that 
this co-ordination works; always. 
To compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location 
add 1° 7V2' to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign). 
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30°. The first gives the 
number cf signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and 
the second is the degree cf rulership on the M. C. cf the location. In the 
Table cf Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column 
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

--- PAGE 32 of 143 ---

28 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Kansas City, Mo. — West Longitude 94° 30' 
ADD 1° 7%' 
95"21V2 
Dividing by 30ogives 3 signs 5° 37Va 
Subtracting the result from 30" gives 24" 32 Va' 
So, the zodiacal position cf the M. C. is Sagittarius 24° 32 Va' 
The Latitude is 39° North. In the Table cf Houses 24" Sagittarius on 
the M. C. is 19° 4 Pisces on the Ascendant. 
To compute the sub-division rulership; each sub-division is 21/20 so 
24° is in the 10th Dwadasamsas, which, under Sagittarius is Virgo. The 
beginning cf this 10th Dwadasamsas is yVa0 from 0° Capricorn at 88° 
52%' West Longitude at 96° 22%' West. Kansas City is 24° 32%' 
Sagittarius (94° 30' West); a difference cf I 121/2'. As one thirtieth of 
21/20 is 5 then 112 W computes to 22 degrees cf Virgo which is the sub- 
division MC bringing an ascendant cf 5° 06' cf Sagittarius at 39 North 
Latitude. By using your slide rule the computations are greatly simpli- 
fied. 
A few cf the major division degrees are as follows; 
Boston 18" Capricorn onM. C. 4° Taurus onAsc. 
New York 15° Capricorn " " 28° Aries " " 
Washington 12° Capricorn " " 22° Aries " " 
Chicago 2° Capricorn " " 4° Aries " " 
Los Angeles 1° Sagittarius " " 15° Aquarius " " 
♦

--- PAGE 33 of 143 ---

[£5 
a 
mi 
V, 
il k' 
IB 
a 
mt' 
r m m 
s/i 
»! 
ss 
aiiiHs 
r/x 
BS

--- PAGE 34 of 143 ---

£ 
33 
a 
£ 
z 
30 
12 
<£3 
o 
tL 
Q « 
H 
<0 
z -

--- PAGE 35 of 143 ---

CHAPTER JWO 
PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS 
One cf the most difficult problems in astrological practice is the 
method to use in projecting or "progressing" a radix or birth chart in 
order to analyze the probabilities cf the future. The controversies on this 
point are very heated, and tend to diffuse most cf the fundamentals in- 
volved. The many facets cf the question have no place in a note-book 
manual cf this sort, but I have found that every method in general use 
has some basis cf merit. On the other hand, a small degree cf merit is 
unsatisfactory excuse for using methods which do not stand up con- 
sistently. In mundane interpretation results are cf paramount impor- 
tance. 
The popular methods cf "primary" and "secondary" directions have 
never held up for me. In other words, they work beautifully one time 
and fail utterly at another. Mentally leaping the gap by presuming 
transit "touch-offs" or changes in geographical location never explained 
the problem. The obvious answer should be that planetary positions on 
the tenth or twentieth days after the beginning or birth cannot have any 
effect on the corresponding years cf life. It is physically impossible to 
raise a blister in the twentieth year because cf a burn received on the 
twentieth day. Yet, like the progressive motion cf the precession of the 
equinoxes,and the entire Solar system, there is an analogy between a day 
and a year in interpretive science. It is the occult, the fatalistic, and also 
probably the expression cf the microcosmic within the macrocosmic. The 
diurnal cycle is related to the annual cycle in the same manner as the 
spiritual is related to the physical. One day does relate to one year. But, 
and this seems to be the point, the diurnal and annual (apparent) revo- 
lutions of the Sun are the units cf measure; not the zodiacal measures of 
Mercury, or Mars, or Venus, et cetera. The zodiacal position cf Mercury 
twenty days after birth is effective twenty days after birth but never 
affects the twentieth year cf life. Yet the diurnal, or Sun, measure for the 
twentieth day cf life affects the twentieth year as spiritual, or fatalistic, 
indicator cf the destiny. 
The Sun in its diurnal revolution then becomes the basis cf progres- 
sion in locating the destiny cf the radix subject. It is the key which re- 
veals why everyone, in a true sense, is neither "captain cf his soul or 
master of his fate." It reveals the Radix subject's relation to inscrutable 
and imponderable spiritual law. 
Sepharial in "The Science of Foreknowledge," Alec Stuart in 'The Se- 
cret of the Meridian" and particularly Vivian E. Robson in "The Radix 
System" apply this premise in a most practical and workable manner. 
When the diurnal measure cf the Sun (about 59' 8") is applied in each 
progressed year to every planet in the radix the unit cf the solar measure- 
ment fulfills the entire analogy cf the basic premise involved. The point 
is that it works out most satisfactorily in practice, without the gaps cf the 
"primary" and "secondary" methods.

--- PAGE 36 of 143 ---

32 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
ADDENDA 1977: Since the foregoing, written in 1936, the radix 
system concept has been widely researched in Europe and brilliantly 
presented in several books by REINHOLD EBERTIN cf Aalen, West 
Germany Significant are "Combination cf Stellar Influences," "Tables 
cf Events," "Transits," etc. 
For precise work, and where the ephemeris cf the radix year is avail- 
able, the procedure is to take the position cf the Sun at the day cf the 
Radix in the ephemeris. Count forward as many days as years are to be 
progressed and compute exactly how many degrees, minutes and seconds 
the Sun moved. Add this amount to the longitude cf every planet in the 
Radix and also to all cusp positions. "Secondary" directions occur when 
the Moon's total travel is added to the position cf the Moon in the Radix. 
When the ephemeris cf the year cf the Radix is not available use the 
average daily rate cf the Sun's travel—59' 8" for each year; and the 
average daily travel cf the Moon—13' 10' 35", for the "secondary" di- 
rections. The condensed table cf measure will be found in the note sec- 
tion. This method is valuable in estimating the "fate" or long term out- 
look from corporation, national and other mundane figures. The portents 
do not involve specific happenings however. Always keep in mind that 
they simply time the indications or materialization cf the indications cf 
the Radix. 
For practical and detailed interpretation and forecasts cf specific 
tendencies and events an application cf the annual revolution cf the Sun 
seems consistently accurate. The basis is the annual return cf the Sun to 
the same position it occupies in the Radix. A chart set for this moment 
indicates the events cf the year to follow, and diurnal figures based on 
this Solar Return times those events and indicates by daily and actual 
planetary positions in operation the motivation and specific timing cf all 
events. 
The method is to erect a chart for the moment cf the Sun's return to 
the position it occupied in the Radix. Then the Sidereal Time cf this 
chart is a base for each diurnal chart cf the year. For practical purposes 
one minute (1') cf Sidereal Time is added to the Radix Sidereal Time 
for each day after the day cf the Solar Return, and the ephemeris posi- 
tions of the planets are the diurnal day in question are entered in their 
proper places. For example: 
Compute the Sun's exact position in the Radix. Then erect a figure for 
the nearest previous Solar Return to that place. It will be necessary to 
compute the time cf the Return to minutes and seconds in Greenwich 
Mean Time. Then transpose this G. M. T. to True Local Time by sub- 
tracting four minutes for each degree cf WEST Longitude, or ADDING 
four minutes for each degree cf EAST Longitude. Then calculate the 
Sidereal Time cf the Solar Return at the geographical location in ques- 
tion, which may not be the Radix location. This Sidereal Time is the 
base for the diurnal figures cf the year, by simply adding one minute for 
each day to the Solar Return S. T. For illustration, say the Sidereal 
Time of the Solar Return figure is 12-24—31, September 1st. We want 
the diurnal for November 1st. To the Sidereal Time cf the September

--- PAGE 37 of 143 ---

PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS 
33 
1st chart add one minute (!') for each day, (30 days from September 
1st to October 1st; 3 1 days from October 1st to November 1st) or 61'. 
12 24 31 S. T. Solar Return (Sept. 1st) 
61 Increase 
13 25 31 S. T. of Diurnal (Nov. 1st) 
Enter the house cusps according to the proper latitude and the planets 
positions from the ephemeris for November 1st. The Radix and pro- 
gressed Radix positions are added in their proper sign positions. 
The tb^nry involvine-this method is that although the sidereal year 
and the tropical year only diffgr-fey the amount ot fHiTprecession of the 
equinox (about 50^.2), the sidereal year is 35S.2563b mean solar days 
^rhile there is a sidefeaTtTmc difference cf about §ix hours, or one quarter^ 
day, between two Solar Returns. Our calendar handles this by comput- 
ing one year as 365 days and every fourth year adding a day. To illus- 
trate: Use the Sun's return at 0° Aries in a geocentric ephemeris. 
Solar Return fireen wich Time 
March 21st, 1929 2:35 a.m. 
March 21st, 1930 8:30 A.M. 
March 21st, 1931 2:06p.m. 
March 20th, 1932 7: 54 p.m. (Leap Year) 
March 21st, 1933 1:43 a.m. 
March 21st, 1934 7:28 A.M. 
March 21st, 1935 1; 18 P.M. 
March 20th, 1936 6: 58 P.M. (Leap Year) 
Twenty four hours cf mean solar time are equal to 24 hours, 3 min- 
utes, and 56.5554 seconds cf sidereal time. This, however, at the rate of 
gain cf 3 minutes, 56V2 minutes a day approximates an entire day each 
year and so prevents any upset to our premise. 
For strictly precise work in the diurnal charts it would have to be 
recognized that the orbital speed cf the Earth around the Sun is not uni- 
form, but varies in accordance with Kepler's principle cf the Law of 
Areas. There is an equation cf time in the difference between mean and 
apparent solar, or Sun, time. This reaches as great a maximum value as 
PLUS 14 minutes 28 seconds on February 11th, and as much as MINUS 
16 minutes 21 seconds on November 3rd. Therefore the Sidereal Time 
difference between two Solar Returns, computed at 0° cf Aries, will be 
between five and one half and six hours;—not exactly one quarter day 
each year. T o compute the exact daily increment cf Sidereal Time to be 
added to diurnal charts it would be necessary to locate the daily orbital 
speed cf the Earth; or else, divide the total sidereal time differential, 
between the two Solar Returns involved, by 365.25. But in interpreta- 
tion we are not concerned with exact aspects, inasmuch as there is an orb 
of influence in all planetary vibrations. This greatly simplifies matters as 
for all general purposes we can simply add one minute (f) for a day. 
In interpretation of these diurnal charts, house rulerships, as outlined 
in the note section, and cuspal points, should receive greatest attention.

--- PAGE 38 of 143 ---

34 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
A complete pattern cf the actual cosmic stimuli, as it is applying at the 
specific geographical location in question, is patterned on the chart. 
Events cannot only be timed to the hour but often to the minute. When 
used with the United States charts the coincidence with governmental 
acts, news events, and important decisions is often astonishing. The ap- 
plication is more fully discussed in the section on Synthesis. 
ADDENDA 1978: readers cf the foregoing material in the 1936 
edition reproduced here complained cf computation problems. Short-cut 
or more simplified methods were requested. I admit the subsequent de- 
mands cf daily work forced faster although less precise mathematics, 
with good quality results. See the chapter: An "Over
1-Simplified 
Method, etc.

--- PAGE 39 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
SYNTHESIS—ESTIMATING 
ECONOMIC TRENDS 
In spite cf the many mechanical problems involved in astro-science, 
the greater difficulty concerns interpretation cf the charts. The approach 
toward precise interpretation can be taught, but the actual interpretation 
must be learned. No one can teach the actual synthesis cf all the po- 
tentialities cf a chart; it is a natural ability cf co-ordination one either 
possesses or is without. However, there are many salient factors which 
anyone, with some application and study, can apply and use for practical 
purposes. F these factors are applied properly the layman is able to at- 
tain results quicker, while the practiced interpreter can achieve better 
results. 
Planets are in constant angular relationship to one another and to the 
earth. Each angle is a different facet or blend cf the vibratory forces 
involved and results in a different psychological motivation than another 
angle. Every degree cf 360" has its specific nature. For practical pur- 
poses, and in line with the rules involving angles graphically illustrated 
and discussed in the companion brochure "Market Charts," only a few 
cf the angles can be considered. These angles, or aspects, principally 
used are the 30°, 60°, 90°, 120°, 150° and 180° on both sides cf the 
circle. Sometimes the angles cf 45° and 135° are also valuable indi- 
cators. None cf these aspects are, in a true sense, unfavorable; but, as 
some generate compression while others generate expansion, the tend- 
ency is to term the compression aspects unfavorable and the expansion 
aspects favorable. The 30°, 60°, and 120° are favorable; the 150° is 
doubtful, and the remainder unfavorable. 
In the synthesis cf a chart the natures cf the planets, the personality 
of each sign, the meanings cf the houses and a knowledge cf the aspects 
are all involved. The chart is like a jar cf fluid arriving in the laboratory 
for analysis. The chemist analyzes the fluid for its complete content. 
The interpreter cf a chart proceeds in the same manner, weighing each 
part. 
In estimating business and market trends my first procedure is to lo- 
cate the primary, or major, swings cf the indices involved. This appears 
to be involved in the Great Mutation cf 240 years portent. Set a Solar 
Return figure based on this radix (see note section for chart) each year. 
For the day to day indications use the diurnal method already discussed. 
The radix and the diurnals are set for the capital cf the country in ques- 
tion. 
Such a series cf charts set over the last seventy five years show a coin- 
cidence between the unfavorable aspects cf major planets and economic 
depression, and the favorable aspects with recovery and prosperity. In 
this period the thirteen times Uranus and Saturn were in unfavorable 
aspect coincides with thirteen periods cf general economic decline. In

--- PAGE 40 of 143 ---

36 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
the nine times these planets were in favorable aspect decided gains in 
business activity were registered seven times, and mild gains in two 
times. Since 1896 Uranus and Jupiter have been in favorable aspect 
twenty eight times. In every case these aspects coincided with gains in 
business activity. The July 8th, 1932 depression low coincided with an 
exact trine cf these planets on July 9th, 1932—the day the upward 
thrust began. A synthesis cf the relationships by aspectjmd.sign posi- 
tions cf JupitSfcSsturn and Uranus, nlns the Sun Soot Cycle is the 
framework upon whicEto project the primary trends cf business and 
markets. Additional details are brought out in the companion brochure, 
"Major Trends in American Economics." 
T o discover how the national cycles cf business, or the primary trends, 
will effect a particular locality superimpose the Solar Return and diur- 
n a 1 'en the house positions cf the locality in question according to the 
rulership procedure in Chapter One. 
The intermediate, or secondary, trends within the primary trend be- 
come more involved. The primary trend base is retained in mind as of 
major importance; then a figure is set for the Vernal Equinox. This 
figure holds rule for the year and the diurnals for each day to follow are 
based on its Sidereal Time. However, the implications cf the quarterly 
Ingresses which follow take precedence over the particular quarter in- 
volved. 
The minor trends, seldom cf more than a few days duration in the 
same direction on the statistical charts cf business activity and markets, 
are the most difficult procedure cf the three types cf trends included. In 
normal times, where supply and demand operates freely, a barrage or 
string cf favorable aspects will bring upward movements, and a string 
cf unfavorable aspects the reverse. But when periods cf abnormality 
occur, and the economic machinery is broken down, the rule cf favorable 
and unfavorable aspects does not hold on the minor trend because cf one 
or more major motivating forces which cuts df or neutralizes the tempo- 
rary minor forces. Such situations develop regularly, such as the opposi- 
tion aspect cf Saturn to Neptune which was in force during 1935 and 
will be more strongly in force in the first ten months cf 1936. Lunation 
figures reveal their influences. 
The change from one sign to another by a planet coincides with 
change in trend and general psychology, depending on the magnitude 
and speed cf the planet. Mercury changing signs is a powerful market 
factor, for instance, in this connection. 
Jji commodity markets the Moon is important: in marking turns. The 
time of TRe~New Moon; or Eunation, and the^Fiill Moon, arcPcritical 
commodity points; and, if a commodity makes a high (or a low) on one 
key day it will maintain its new trend until the next key day. Occasion- 
ally key days develop simultaneously and thereby mark extremely criti- 
cal points. Those days termed key days are when the Moon is in square 
aspect to either Mercury, Mars or Venus. Another factor cf importance, 
particularly in commodity markets, are the planetary hours cf each day. 
Their use in hour to hour observations is cf great value.

--- PAGE 41 of 143 ---

SYNTHESIS —ESTIMATING ECONOMIC TRENDS 
37 
For corporation events, and the probable activity cf their securities, 
use as a radix chart the mundane house positions described in Chapter 
One; and the methods cf Chapter Two set for the date cf incorporation 
and located at the place cf the home office. IF the exact data is known 
set the diurnals according to the Sidereal Time cf the exact Solar Re- 
turn. IF not, it is best to watch the interaction cf the transits in connec- 
tion with the incorporation radix set for the home office location and its 
radix positions and progressions, according to mundane rulership cusps. 
Some success can be attained by using the diurnals based on the Solar 
Return cf the New York Stock Exchange radix at the corporation home 
office location and superimposing the corporation radix positions on the 
diurnals. In the matter cf markets, however, it must be stressed that 
technical market factors, and particularly the statistical market charts, 
are the yardsticks cf market action. Motivating influences are reflected 
by the planetary positions, but there must be a yardstick first. 
The student cf business trends quickly realizes that it is a fundamen- 
tal law that supply and demand are never equal for any length cf time. 
All the man made economic planning ever conceived will never upset 
that law. The problem cf droughts, insects, scourges and rainfall can 
never be completely controlled in growing commodities. An average of 
many crops will about coordinate with basic demand, but to have every 
crop at exactly the average is impossible. Yet shortages at one geo- 
graohical location and suroluses at another can be detected bv the inter- 
weaving cycles which average out to the major cycle. These inter- 
weaving cycles can be estimated for mundane rulerships (geographical 
locations) by using major conjunctions as the radix or beginning point. 
The rotational conjunctions are very useful also. 
In the Jupiter-Saturn Rotational Radix (see chart section) the point 
cf wheat is found by subtracting the position cf the Sun (at the conjunc- 
tion moment) from the position cf the conjunction and adding the 
Ascendant. This is a radix point entered and used in much the same 
manner as Pars Fortuna is used in a natal chart. In the 1901 figure for 
London this point fell in the second house in conjunction with the Moon 
at 12" 36' Cancer and opposing the point cf conjunction at 14° 0' 18" 
Capricorn. This figure included the period cf the War, when wheat 
shortages were intense. In the 1921 Conjunction (Jupiter-Saturn) at 
London the point cf wheat is in 10" 43' Leo in conjunction with Neptune 
and Venus. The point cf barley is found by subtracting the place cf the 
Moon from the place cf Jupiter and adding the ascendant; sugar by 
subtracting Mercury from Venus and adding ascendant; rye by sub- 
tracting Mercury from Saturn and adding ascendant; cotton by sub- 
tracting Mercury from Mars and adding ascendant. These "points" are 
to use for supplemental purposes, however, for though they work in a 
unique manner the scientific basis for them is not clear. The basic idea 
was suggested by Pallicus in an unpublished manuscript now in the 
British Museum. 
The cycles cf each planet, viz, Mars, Venus, etc, are so well known as 
significant co-ordinates with the cycles of various phases cf economic

--- PAGE 42 of 143 ---

38 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
life that they need not be repeated here except to call attention to them. 
The layman will find the seven lessons on Mundane Astrology, issued 
by the Brotherhood cf Light at Los Angeles, valuable in this connection. 
In the problems involving aspects, orbs cf influence, etc, the probable 
moment cf greatest intensity cf an aspect is sometimes disconcerting. At 
one time, particularly where mundane rulership figures are concerned 
and in aspects to cusps and radix positions in diurnal figures, aspects 
seem to be strongest when approaching than when exact or passing. At 
other moments the reverse seems to occur. It is not the fault cf the 
computations in the ephemeris or the figure involved, but appears to be 
caused by the mean obliquity cf the Ecliptic. In 1936 this is 23° 25' 
51".40; the difference between the earth's poles and the ecliptic's poles. 
This obviously throws every point cf the zodiac measured at the Equa- 
tor, except Aries and Libra degrees, cff in declination from one to four 
degrees. Depending on the declination depends whether the approach- 
ing, the exact, or the passed aspect is most powerful. Such a situation 
can delay a market turn, marked by an aspect cf slow moving planets, 
as much as several months; and in the case cf an aspect cf rapidly mov- 
ing planets, several days (and cf course, conversely, ahead cf the ephem- 
eral positions). This is particularly noticeable in 1935 when the im- 
portant aspects involving Gemini, Cancer and Leo practically all were 
strongest when approaching or ahead cf time, while those involving 
Sagittarius and Capricorn were behind time. This is a problem to in- 
volve careful consideration by observers.

--- PAGE 43 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
THE HOUSES IN MUNDANE 
AND CORPORATION CHARTS 
FIRST HOUSE: General circumstances and temper cf the people, their 
general health and vitality and sense cf optimism or pessimism. 
CORPORATION: The place cf the corporation in relation to the 
public, its stockholders, and business objectives. (Note ruler cf asc. and 
aspects). 
SECOND HOUSE: Government Treasury, banking and currency con- 
ditions, business and trade activity, taxation and national income; all 
matters cf money. 
CORPORATION: earnings and profit abilities. 
THIRD HOUSE: Transportation and communications, including rails, 
telephone and telegraph, commercial radio, demand for stocks and 
bonds, trade volume, technical publications, financial and trade relations 
with adjacent countries, short distance travel. 
CORPORATION: Relations with competitors, transportation and 
communications, some advertising, bookkeeping accounts, internal agree- 
ments. 
FOURTH HOUSE: Real property, mining, crops, public works and 
buildings, weather, anti-administration faction in politics, exploration, 
socialization. 
CORPORATION: Tangible assets, direct competition, power cf com- 
petitors, hazards involving property. 
FIFTH HOUSE: Amusements and entertainment, including theatres 
and radio; phases cf publishing, publicity and advertising; children and 
places where women and children congregate; the emotional aspects of 
mass psychology; domestic welfare cf the nation; speculative activity 
and conditions. 
CORPORATION: Subsidiaries or branches, advertising success, in- 
come from capital, the place cf deposit cf capital such as safes, vaults, 
and banks, the motivating center. 
SIXTH HOUSE: The state cf public health. Army and Navy, condition 
cf the masses — particularly labor, net financial results cf fifth house 
affairs, foodstuffs, wearing apparel. 
CORPORATION: Employees — including their character and health, 
corporation connection with hostelries, agriculture and agricultural 
products, working equipment, fixtures and furnishings. 
SEVENTH HOUSE: International relations, including treaties; threats

--- PAGE 44 of 143 ---

40 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
cf war and overtures cf peace; foreign trade; marriage and divorce, in- 
cluding civil suits opposed to popular opinion; opponents. 
CORPORATION: Public accountings; adjustments; employee income 
and payrolls; volume cf sales; best method cf sales appeal. 
EIGHTH HOUSE: Foreign finance, including effects cf foreign ex- 
change; financial results cf treaties; the cabinet cf the government; op- 
position to trade balances; national budget; flow cf money; taxation; 
death rate. 
CORPORATION: Credits; private conferences; all confidential in- 
formation and trade secrets; the board cf directors; net earnings. 
NINTH HOUSE: The courts; legal, religious, philosophical and scien- 
tific developments; foreign trade and shipping; long distance travel; 
foreign news; insurance; resources cf labor and the masses. 
CORPORATION: Completion cf contracts; litigation; audits; in- 
surance; shipping; affiliations at a distance; inter-company correspond- 
ence. 
TENTH HOUSE: The president or ruler; mayor cf a city; political 
activity cf the party in power; vested authority; business activity and 
turnover; leaders. 
CORPORATION: The corporation head, or administrative depart- 
ment (note particularly the positions and aspects cf the Sun); general 
business conditions; relations with government and associations. 
ELEVENTH HOUSE: The Senate; The House cf Representatives; 
financial results cf government policies; money volume cf business activ- 
ity; legislation affecting business and government activity; government 
obligations; utilities. 
CORPORATION: Corporation friends; resources cf the head cf the 
organization; political connections; constitutional policies; the good-will 
and intangible assets; indebtedness in bonds, mortgages, etc; treasurer. 
TWELFTH HOUSE: All limitations, secrets, and moral obligations cf 
government and business; the results cf litigation; all public institutions 
such as reformatories, jails, hospitals and asylums; all speculative fea- 
tures involving eighth house affairs; all secret dealings involving the 
country. 
CORPORATION: Experimentation and research; trade secrets, for- 
mulae and methods; limitations through secret enemies, including in- 
efficiency; effects cf litigation. 
KEY-WORDS FOR INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS 
Sun (Q)—Government and administrators, authority, gold, specula- 
tion, theatre as a business, etc.

--- PAGE 45 of 143 ---

HOUSES IN MUNDANE AND CORPORATION CHARTS 41 
Moon ( 5 )—Masses, crowds, crop harvests, popular ideas, sea, water. 
Mercury ( 5 )—Media, trade, commerce, publishing, advertising, doc- 
tors, printers, short travel. 
Venus ( ? ) — architecture, art, fashion, music halls, recreation. 
Mars ( $ )—Army, Navy, surgeons, war, violence, epidemics, iron, steel, 
explosives, machinery, munitions, tobacco, sports. 
Jupiter (4)—banking, brokers, courts, churches, favorable aspects 
abundance, unfavorable extravagance. 
.Saturn ( t> )—favorable aspects: patience, unfavorable: loss depression; 
labor and laboring places, the land as cf farms, grain,, mines, real 
estate, mountainous places, the aged. 
Uranus ( $ )—favorable aspects: change, unfavorable: disruptive; air- 
craft, electronics, railroads, tornadoes, strikes, radio energy, utilities, 
political socialism. 
Neptune ( T )—favorable aspects: creative, unfavorable: deception; 
actors, beverages, hospitals, bogus business operations, narcotics and 
drug companies, oil, photography, political idealism. 
Pluto ( P ) — favorable aspects: cooperation, unfavorable: compulsion, 
dictatorships, atomic energy, plutonium, sewers, rackets, crime. 
(The foregoing are samples cf a wide range cf applications; experience 
soon will suggest additions.) 
ADDENDA 1978. Since publication of the foregoing in 1936 several new ephem- 
erides have been developed and a wide exchange of books and magazines has taken 
place. In this situation American, British and Oriental studies use slightly different 
symbols from those most used in Continental Europe. For example, the Pluto symbol 
in European style seems to be a distorted Venus symbol of the American British 
form. Other sometimes disturbing differences appear in symbols for other planets. 
In this text symbols now growing in general acceptance are used. Note the often 
used symbol for Uranus, often mistaken for Neptune, is the European form. Unlike 
the symbol for Mars there is a dot in the ring and the stem is a vertical arrow.

--- PAGE 46 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FIVE 
ECLIPSES 
One of the most important factors in mundane interpretation is to 
follow the effect cf eclipses. Eclipses are most intense in their effects 
where they are visible. Sepharial's rule for finding the duration cf the 
effects of an eclipse is: find the distance cf the eclipsed luminary at con- 
junction or opposition from the Node. Then if 5° be divided by this 
distance, the magnitude cf the eclipse will be obtained. Then for dura- 
tion—as 1 is to 60, so is the magnitude to the number cf months the 
eclipse will indicate. Thus: 
Distance from Node Magnitude Years Duration Months Duration 
For interpretation cf eclipses refer to "Eclipses in Theory and Prac- 
tice" by Sepharial, and Raphael's "Mundane Astrology." 
¥4° 
Va0 
3/4° 
1 0 
l1/40 
IVa0 
l3/40 
2 0 
21/40 
2%" 
2%° 
3 0 
3V20 
4 0 
5 0 
6 0 
8 0 
10 0 
15 0 
20.00 
10.00 
6.66 
5.00 
4.00 
3.33 
2.857 
2.50 
2.22 
2.00 
1.818 
1.67 
1.43 
1.25 
1.00 
.833 
.625 
.5 
.333 
100 
50 
33 
25 
20 
16 
14 
12 
11 
10 
8 
7 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
6 
8

--- PAGE 47 of 143 ---

CHAPTER SIX 
INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS 
IN THE HOUSES AND SIGNS 
When the student cf astrology has mastered the mechanical phases cf 
interpretation and begins to estimate the many influences involved in 
each chart many difficulties develop. A planet or house in one position 
is effective in a manner different from another position. The text-books 
contain tremendously voluminous tabulations cf all the shades cf mean- 
ings in each position, but then probably every possible meaning has 
never been in print. The whole problem cf life and living is involved 
in a chart. Either more years cf experience than can be crowded into 
one lifetime or a gargantuan memory would completely meet the prob- 
lem. However, there is a simple way cf getting into a chart, which does 
not attempt to tax the memory, and at the same time holds to simple 
first principles. 
As discussed under Chapter One the Sun is attributed to rulership of 
the sign Leo, the fifth mundane house. The Sun's "personality" is colored 
by the fifth house influence but when it is in a chart its action depends 
on its sign position in relation to the sign Leo, with Leo as its first house. 
In other words the Sun in Leo is the Sun operating in a first house 
manner, but the Sun in Aquarius is the Sun operating in a seventh house 
manner — Aquarius being the 7th house from Leo. Now, in a radix the 
Sun may be in Leo in the 10th house. Then the Sun is operating in a 
first house manner through, or giving expression to this first house man- 
ner, the 10th house. In the same manner, Virgo is the first house cf 
Mercury (it rules Virgo); then Mercury in Capricorn would be the 
Mercury nature or "personality" working in a fifth house manner, plus 
some of the eleventh house because it is the lower octave ruler cf 
Gemini. 
When the nature cf each planet is learned, and the rulerships applied, 
a mental "key-word" system soon develops which quickly tabulates in 
the mind a large number cf meanings to every planetary and sign posi- 
tion. Then if the text-books giving the multitudes cf meanings are used, 
to build up a further understanding cf specific meanings, progress can 
be made. The sooner a student is able to get away from reference works 
the better his ability cf perception and interpretation becomes. 
The basic texts for this are many. Alan Leo stressed this method cf 
approaching what he called "memory co-ordination" but text-books ap- 
parently ignored the complete practicality cf the point. However, re- 
cently Sidney K. Bennett developed several texts on interpretation along 
these lines which are cf enormous interpretive value, to both the student 
and the professional, and decidedly worth their published price to both 
layman and student. 
In mundane interpretation there is a great lack cf reference material.

--- PAGE 48 of 143 ---

44 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
For general purposes Raphael's "Mundane Astrology" and A J. Pearce's 
"Textbook cf Astrology" are most useful. 
In connection with planetary positions by both sign and house, de- 
tailed interpretation finds a tremendous source cf help in taking cog- 
nizance cf the fixed stars. Authoritative texts on this phase cf the field 
are, "The Fixed Stars and Constellations" bv Vivian E Rnhgnn. and 
Johndro's "Stars'*j "FIXED STARS and their interpretation" hv Khertin- 
Hoffman; English ^iHofrpul3lj|Kgcl 191 Shy gbertin-Verfag.

--- PAGE 49 of 143 ---

CHAPTER SEVEN 
CASTING MUNDANE CHARTS 
Mathematical precision to the second is not necessary in setting a 
geocentric chart cf the heavens. Although there is no harm in comput- 
ing every figure with the mathematical methods cf an astronomical 
observatory the time consumed is far better placed on interpretation. A 
simple method cf working is as follows. An ephemeris designed for 
astrological work for the years to be considered, a Tables cf Houses, and 
blank chart forms are needed. 
First, enter on the chart blank the house cusp degrees and signs. 
This is done by converting the time data to standard time, if in day- 
light saving time; then find how far the location is in degrees from the 
nearest Standard Meridian Time Line. Add four minutes for each de- 
gree the location is East cf that meridian, but subtract four minutes for 
each degree it is West (if West). The result is True Local Time. 
In the ephemeris take the sidereal time for noon PRLVIOITS to the 
chart location time and ADD: 
(1) Sidereal Time for noon previous in ephemeris 
(2) 10 seconds correction for every 15 degrees longitude 
(3) The interval between previous noon and chart time 
(4) 10 seconds correction for each hour cf this period 
The result is the sidereal Time cf the chart. 
I 
Tnder the proper latitude in the Tables cf Houses find that sidereal 
time which is closest to the sidereal time cf the chart and from the 
Tables enter the signs and degrees on the proper house cusps cf the 
chart. 
Second, enter the planets in the houses cf the chart. 
Find Greenwich Mean Time by multiplying the degrees cf longitude 
by 4 and divide by 60', and add to the True Local Time, if West Longi- 
tude. 
By logarithms, simple proportion, or preferably mathematical tables, 
compute the distance cf travel cf each planet since the Greenwich 
Time and zodiacal place shown in the ephemeris. Some ephemerides 
show the places cf the planets at noon and some show them at midnight 
—make sure which. 
Enter the computed positions in their proper places on the chart. 
Third, compute the declinations and latitudes cf each planet and 
tabulate these positions. 
Fourth, tabulate all the major aspects in a speculum, and from the 
section of notes in this manual tabulate the natures and powers cf each 
planet. 
(Note: diurnal figures are cast according to Chapter Two)

--- PAGE 50 of 143 ---

CHAPTER EIGHT 
NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
The hundreds cf volumes which have been consulted over a period cf 
many years, combined with tests and practice cf the many methods 
presented, has gradually evolved the material in this manual. The 
pages which follow are the framework cf a ready reference note-book 
which is in daily use. The layman will find much cf the data difficult to 
apply, but if the text-books referred to in the foregoing chapters are 
consulted the applications will be immediately made clear, for these 
notes are cf valuable assistance.

--- PAGE 51 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS , KEYS 
10 
m 
34' 
8 
30'> 
7 a 
30' 
55 ^ 
v ^ 
U3 v 
00 O) 
cv 
2 
5) 
34' 
2 
TTl 
02'I 
THE GREAT 
MUTATION-1842 
Japiter-Saturn cf 
January 26th, 1842 
0 :19';53" A.M. 
Washington, D.C. 
Bears rule of econ- 
omic conditions to 
2082 A.D. 
2 
K? 
34' 
5= > 
? ct, q 
. * « 
« O 
19 
cc ^ 
10 
30' 
30' 
NOTES

--- PAGE 52 of 143 ---

48 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
7 
T 
3 
<1 
17 
,V5 
26 | 
X 
43 
ROTA- 
TIONAL CONJUNC- 
TION JUPITER-SAT- 
URN, Septenrber 9th, 
1921—11:07 P.M. 
Washington, B.C. 
Supplement figure 
of Great Mutation 
28/35' 5 
26 / 
43 
17 
U? 
o. 
9 
Oo v 
. ^ 00 
^ A 0 
& ^ 
■ 10 Y& 
ai CP v \ ▼- 
o? OX $0 
>cs~ 
o 
m? 
fi o 
-cs
1 
Ml 
18 
NOTES

--- PAGE 53 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
49 
20o.2 
SI 
19°.8'j 
% '> 
14035' 
08".3 
^14° =51' 
16o50' 
5S".8 
13o.0' 
oo o cv lo <o . 
^ o / 
^ oV 
o+' 
X> ^ 
CHART OF 
THE DECLARATION 
OF INDEPENDENCE— 
July 4th, 1776. Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 0:20'P.M. 
UNITED STATES CHART 
o^' 
S.T. 7 ;13':05.9" 
G.M.T. 5:20:40 
P.M. 
.1108' 
» 
14°35' 
T 
108".3 
TTL 
13o0' 
-j 0 0 \ vU 
V\ 
16o50' 
vs 
55".8 
^0 
20o.2, 
'ig°S' 
NOTES

--- PAGE 54 of 143 ---

50 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
16 
9 
T 
4- 
rOp ^ 
J cf 
> ^ 
""■  
<D 
to 0 
° 
>> VO jJ 
\ 3 
25| 
37' 
RADIX 
NEW YORK STOCK 
EXCHANGE 
May 17th, 1792—at 
8:52 A.M. T.L.T. 
According to 
Parker's Ephemeris 
New York City 
S- rt. 
9 
Jt 
15 
25 
KJ 
37 
23 
NOTES

--- PAGE 55 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
51 
8 
m 
O 
S >1 
a. 
Sj 
<s 
fv 
27 
-V 
r*.' 
18 
R 
12 
vS 29W 03' 
LIVERPOOL 
GRAIN EXCHANGE 
August 28th, 1201 
(Old Style) 
118 
« 
112 
27 
K 
8 
T 
9 
NOTES

--- PAGE 56 of 143 ---

52 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
25 
16 
O 
o 
fO 
x> 
TH ^ to 
00 N 
12 
o. 
/ 
V 
<s, 
17 
27 
a 
30 
BANK 
OP ENGLAND 
April 25111,1694 
(Old Style) 
27 
1 30 
12 
lU 
16 
o> 
S) ^ 
7? 
25 
NOTES

--- PAGE 57 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
13 
22 
^5 
'*'29 
35 
February lath, 1859 
11 :10 A.M. T.L.T. 
)_[ 110 X 49 
20 
CHICAGO. ILL 
 D 
22 
^ 
V K 
o 
P 
CP 
o 
.x, 
14 
NOTES

--- PAGE 58 of 143 ---

54 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
10 
10 
v O 
O ^ 
-o f 
% u 
tJ p 
y-1 to 
18 
■$'sy 
fJJ ri> 
nA 
27 
3 
X I 
41 
&26^ 
■-S3' 
^ 40X41' 
RADIX 
UNITED STATES 
STEEL CORPORATION 
February 25th, 1901 
10:30 A.M. 
Trenton, N. J. 
\6 ^ 38' 
26 < 'TISS' 
3 
! 41 
'TTL 
a 
10 
HE 
8 
NOTES

--- PAGE 59 of 143 ---

[OCR] NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

NOTES

55

--- PAGE 60 of 143 ---

[OCR] 56

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

--- PAGE 61 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
57 
THE PLANETS THE SIGNS 
Sun—G Moon—]) Mercury—^ Aries—T Taurus — ft Gemini—# 
Venus—9 Earth—ffi Mars—S Cancer—E5 Leo—SI Virgo—TIE 
Jupiter—II Saturn—>> Uranus — § Libra  Scorpio—IJ Sagittarius—^ 
Neptune—UJ Pluto—9 Capricorn—V3 Aquarius—™ Pisces— 
PLANETARY AND SIGN NATURES 
CARDINAL SIGNS—Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn 
FIXED SIGNS —Taurus,Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius 
COMMON SIGNS—Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces 
FIRE SIGNS—Aries, Leo,and Sagittarius 
EARTH SIGNS — Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn 
AIR SIGNS — Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius 
WATER SIGNS—Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces 
POSITIVE SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and 
Aquarius 
NEGATIVE SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and 
Pisces (Positive signs are masculine, negative are feminine) 
BARREN SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, and Virgo 
FRUITFUL SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Pisces 
INDIFFERENT SIGNS —Libra, Capricorn, and Aquarius 
PLANETARY 
PLANETARY POWERS REVOLUTIONS 
Detri- 
Exalta- 
Planet 
Rules 
ment 
tion 
Fall Earth—365 days 7 hours 
SUN — 
a — 
— 
T 
— -n- 
Moon—28 Days around earth 
VENUS — 
- 
TTIT — 
— n 
Mercury—88 days 
MERCURY — 
- 
X'X - 
W 
— a 
Venus—224 days 
MOON — 
s - 
V5 — 
8 
— m 
Mars — 1 year 322 days 
SATURN — 
V3 — 
£5 — 
- T 
Jupiter— 11 years 322 days 
JUPITER — 
— 
X - 
£5 
— vs 
Saturn-—29 years 167 days 
MARS — 
Tdu) — ===(«) - 
(V5) 
— (£5) Uranus—84 years 
URANUS — 
^ — 
a — 
Tf 
— 8 
Neptune—164 years 167 days 
NEPTUNE — 
X - 
HE — 
£5 
— VS 
PLUTO — 
T — 
-n-   
W 
— £S 
DECANATE SIGN DIVISIONS 
DECAN r 
b 
IT s 
Jl 
TTJc 
J\- 
TR 
K 
AAA 
X 
(T-W0 r 
b 
I 
s 
Jl 
TTV -n- 
m 
-A^VS. 
/WN 
X 
H"-go* JI 
-/V- 
TR 
yd 
r 
b 
n 
& 
zr -so' 
T 
H 
IT 
<!7 
Jl 
rrh 
~n- n

--- PAGE 62 of 143 ---

58 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
DECAN r 
a 
H 
S 
Jl 
-fU 
S 
iff 
/WS 
« 0 
1 
* 
3> 
0 
? 
o* 
H 
3 
¥ 
U'-Kf 0 
% 
f 
0* 
* 
5 
/ 
J> 
H 
5 
V 
& 
f 
2 
0 
o* 
DECANATE PLANETARY RULERSHIPS 
CRITICAL DEGREES 
(Planets or house cusps in these degrees have 
intensifled effects) 
Aries 1°, 13°, 26". 
Taurus 9°, 21°. 
Gemini 4°, 17". 
Cancer 1°, 13°, 26° 
Leo 9°, 21°. 
Virgo 4°, 17°. 
Libra 1°, 13°, 26". 
Scorpio 9°, 21°. 
Sagittarius 4°, 17". 
Capricorn 1°, 13°, 26" 
Aquarius 9°, 21". 
Pisces 4°, 17°. 
PLANETARY 
TIME PERIODS 
Moon—4 years 
Mercury—10 years 
Venus—8 years 
Sun —19 years 
Mars—15 years 
Jupiter —12 years 
Saturn—40 years 
Uranus—90 years 
Neptune—180 years 
TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE 
Add to the Longitude cf the Moon the Longitude cf the Ascendant 
and subtract the longitude cf the Sun from the total. 
TO CALCULATE GREENWICH MEAN TIME 
FOR ANY POINT WEST LONGITUDE 
Add four minutes for each degree cf longitude the location is WEST 
cf Greenwich to the true local time at the location. 
TO CALCULATE TRUE LOCAL TIME 
To the nearest Standard Meridian Time, ADD four minutes for each 
degree the location is EAST cf the Meridian corresponding to that 
time. If the location is WEST cf that Meridian, SUBTRACT four min- 
utes for each degree it is WEST thereof. 
TO CALCULATE THE ADJUSTED CALCULATION DATE 
(for secondary directions) 
(a) Compute the interval from G. M. T. to following noon 
(b) To this interval add the Sidereal Time for G. M. T. noon on the 
radix day—this equals the Sidereal Time cf the Adj. Calcu. Date. 
(c) IF the G. M, T. falls in the a.m.—count forward in the ephem- 
eris. 
(d) I" the G. M. T. falls in the p.m., or in the am. cf the next day, 
count backwards. 
TO ADJUST CUSPS FOR A POINT 
REMOTE FROM THE RADIX LOCATION 
To the Sidereal Time cf the radix, if the direction be EAST, ADD— 
if the direction be WEST, SUBTRACT—the difference in longitude.

--- PAGE 63 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
59 
reduced to hours and minutes. With this new Sidereal Time the house 
cusps cf the new location are taken from the Tables cf Houses. The 
planets are inserted in the same zodiacal signs, degrees and minutes as 
in the radix chart. A new Part cf Fortune position is calculated accord- 
ing to the revised Ascendant. 
TO PROGRESS A RADIX FIGURE WHEN AN EPHEMERIS 
IS NOT AVAILABLE 
(Note section on Progressions and Transits in this manual) 
Years 
Arc 
Months 
Arc 
Days 
Arc 
1 
0 59' 08" 
1 
4' 45" 
1 
0' 10" 
2 
1 58' 17" 
2 
9' 51" 
2 
0' 20" 
3 
2 57' 25" 
3 
14' 47" 
3 
0' 30" 
4 
3 56' 33" 
4 
19' 43" 
4 
0' 39" 
5 
4 55' 42" 
5 
24' 38" 
5 
0' 49" 
6 
5 54' 50" 
6 
29' 34 
6 
0' 59" 
7 
6 53' 58" 
7 
34' 30" 
7 
T 09 " 
8 
7 53' 07" 
8 
39' 26" 
8 
T 19" 
9 
8 52' 15" 
9 
44' 21" 
9 
T 29" 
10 
9 51' 23" 
10 
49' 17" 
10 
T 39" 
Compute Moon's rate: 13° 10' 35' per year 
MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY PLANETS 
Aries is the first sign cf the zodiac and occupies the first house in 
the natural zodiac. Its ruler is Mars. Therefore no matter where Mars 
falls in a radix figure it exerts a first house influence. In the same way, 
Venus ruling Taurus the second natural zodiacal sign is a financial and 
second house influence; Mercury, ruling Gemini, is a third house in- 
fluence, etc. 
SIGN 
r 
B 
n 
G 
Sl 
-A- 
TTl 
ts 
yWA X 
RULER 
? 
V 
D 
o 
a* 
5 
¥ 
V 
HOUSE 
1 
2 
3 
4- 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY SIGNS 
Mars, (self, aggression, etc) a first house influence, when located in 
Taurus (the natural second sign), exerts its first house influence in a 
second house or money and finance manner. The selfness and aggres- 
siveness cf a Mars in Aries becomes (in Taurus) money aggression. In 
a mundane radix figure this position, for illustration, might appear in 
the fifth house. This would presage (Mars in Taurus in the 5th) money 
aggression through speculative (5th) channels involving agriculture, 
real estate, and mines (With the sign Taurus on the fifth cusp, Aries— 
ruled by Mars—would be on the 4th)

--- PAGE 64 of 143 ---

60 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
The key to the entire planetary house pattern is as follows: 
? 
J) 
O 
? 
4 
3 
V 
T 
1 
12 
M 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4- 
3 
2 
d 
a 
1 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
n 
3 
2 
1 
12 
II 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 4 
9 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
Jl 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
II 
10 
9 
6 
7 
A. 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
II 
10 
9 
8 
TTL 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
M 
10 
9 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I 
12 
II 
10 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I 
12 
11 
l( 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
X 
12 
II 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I

--- PAGE 65 of 143 ---

CHAPTER NINE 
THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART 
A basic premise cf astro computation procedures is precise timing as 
mandatory before accurate interpretation can occur. It is only by chart- 
ing the exact moment of the first breath of a child at birth registers the 
implications of the lifetime which follows. In much the same tradition 
the birth or beginning of a business plan or project, a company or a 
nation often reveals future successes, dangers and disasters. Many en- 
tire lifetimes have been spent devising, guessing, testing chart times cf 
beginnings. 
A major example in the past 50 years has been the United States 
birth, with controversy and almost endless debate over what is the cor- 
rect birth chart. Such debates are good exercises in research but none 
cf them are cf value in actual financial decisions. Many years ago a 
very earnest researcher came to me with a record cf transits to the 
position cf the Moon in the July 4th, 1776 United States Chart. Hind- 
sight seemed to prove specific market action for years in the past with 
this system. A new convergence was to occur in a matter of weeks. It 
failed completely. 
The location of the Moon is one position in the Noon or Libra Rising 
chart at the left. This figure long was accepted as official inasmuch as 
the Declaration of Independence got its last signature about 11:20 A.M. 
and the official public announcing, by a Town Crier, was a few minutes 
after 12 noon. But critics rose to attack the time of the chart. Libra 
Rising with Saturn were not the image or American spirit, or so their 
interpretation methods claimed. 
In research bulletins of the American Academy of Astrologians, sub- 
sequently amplified in my articles in the ASTROLOGICAL BULLE- 
TINA, and then presented in the chapter on The Uranus Cycle, the key 
was^the 7th tn Qth degrees of Gemini. Uranus was crossing this area 
on July 4th, 1776, jusFas ft had done at the tor'ming of"the first cot5H\r 
ljy"~tKe~Spanish in 15A again "in the formation of the Jamestown 
ColQny~Tn~T^07V'tttT?r"the timing nf the 1691 Revolution. 
Due principally to this observation opinion began to use 2: 19 A.M. 
July 4th, 1776 as the chart time for the USA birth. It placed Uranus 
exactly on the Ascendant and the M. C. in Aquarius with the Moon 
nearly conjunct in the 10th house. No longer was the Moon in 24° but 
at 18°, promptly ruining the mass of doctrine on progressions, etc. 
Students who have spent 25 years and often far much less in astro re- 
search study currently boldly proclaim this early morning chart as the 
Gemini figure and authentic key to the USA for the past, present and 
future. Arguments are endless but the innovative, compassionate, sci- 
ence aspiring Uranus on an Ascendant is more romantic than a cautious, 
systematic, thrifty Saturn. 
For years members of the Continental Congress discussed prepare-

--- PAGE 66 of 143 ---

62 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
tion cf a formal statement of principles. The formation cf a committee 
of three was authorized the morning of June 10th, 1776 to draw up a 
declaration to be submitted to the Congress. Thomas Jefferson did the 
actual writing which the committee presented. When was the initial 
idea born? But it is historical fact the people of the 13 colonies learned 
that independence, probable war and internal dissension became official 
in a do or die decision about noon. 
In the chart for noon Saturn is a key. As Llewellyn George often 
said to me "Saturn is discipline, tenacity, just and tinged with puritan- 
ism; but it has a bad name as reaper and depressant of excesses." The 
most cursory examination of the transits.o^Saturn in theXISra Rising 
chart through the 9th, 10th and 11th Houses in American history, is a 
cloctCtTmirTg'probte s. When Saturn has been asoected bv other slow 
movhig-planet positions at each of these periods the effects are specific. 
The phenomena may be now traced back for two centuries for confirma- 
tion. One obvious example was in the years immediately following 
1929. Foreign affairs in the 1920's had been beyond the capacities of 
private enterprise credit and financial resources and the confidence 
which accrued. A major effect of the 1929 crash was mortgage fore- 
closures on a broad scale. Reference to page 39 of section II lists house 
meanings. In 1930 expansive and optimistic Jupiter was at the MC of 
the USA Libra chart reflecting business activity, vested authority, etc, 
opposed by Saturn the reaper and depresser at the cusp of the 4th house 
(real property, tangible assets, anti-optimistic vested authority, etc). 
T o compound this stern indication was the square of Uranus near a 
conjunction with Mars near the cusp of the 7th house (foreign relations, 
foreign trade, worker income and payrolls, sales volume cf business, 
etc.). This forms a devestating negative situation and for the USA 
notably severe. The first signs of any relief did not appear until the 
second quarter cf 1932 with the initial financial recovery apparent as cf 
July 9th under the trine of Jupiter and Uranus with Saturn weak and 
retrograde in Aquarius. 
Comparable inspections may be made from an ephemeris cf the year 
involved and planetary positions compared. Use aspect interaction and 
the related USA Libra chart positions according to planet meanings on 
page 49. Admittedly this is a very simple approach, but effective. Next 
then is ignore for the moment any "birth" such as the foregoing USA 
figure. In 1930 Jupiter moved into the sign cf Cancer at mid-year. 
On page 59 the horizontal column liirtM-jWpitpr gg ruling (he aign, 
Sagittarius. In the columns covering page 60 Jupiter in Cancer is 
"Jupiter's 8th house position. Under 8th house on page 40 an 8th house 
Jupiter centers attention to foreign finances, money flow, credit, etc. 
When in this Cancer sign position an opposition from Saturn plus the 
square of Uranus forms an ominous economic portent. The situation 
continued in an unrelenting fashion and then worsened as the Moon's 
Node neared a conjunction with Uranus to magnify the effects of the 
stellium of Uranus, Saturn and Jupiter. 
As noted on page 58 Jupiter makes its full circle approximately every

--- PAGE 67 of 143 ---

THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART 
63 
12 years. A return to the sign Cancer, for an example cf a different 
climate tEan the early 1930's, was in 1954. The nation, in fact the 
world, had struggled through the ruins cf World War II and seemed to 
have contrived a foundation for renewed growth. People generally were 
discouraged and doggedly hoping for better things but were at low ebb 
in 1953 (Saturn in conjunction with Neptune in Libra squared by 
Uranus in the sign Cancer.). However, in 1954 Jupiter moved into 
Cancer while Saturn shifted into the sign Scorpio (a trine). The Uranus 
Neptune square aspect activated inflated credits in its release from 
Saturn, while the Moon's Node was sextile Neptune. The belated sec- 
ondary post-war boom was underway. Serious exhaustion did not de- 
velop until late in 1965 although reactions and readjustments appeared 
in 1957, 1960 and 1962. Examination cf those years in terms cf the 
foregoing methods may prove a valuable investment in interpretation 
skills. 
(N. B. In your initial examination — using only the ephemeris for the 
years involved, make note cf the sign-house cf each planet, viz Neptune 
in Libra is its 8th; Saturn in Libra its 10th. Thus Neptune in its sign- 
house 8th reflects unlimited aspirations for money in co-operative plans 
with others. Uranus Cancer is Uranus 6th sign-house denoting public 
spending for military, public works, ecology, nurture of labor & agricul- 
ture.) 
The ultimate in interpretation tools is found in proven "birth" time 
as chart formations with the location usually the capital of a country. 
But for serious mundane conclusions charts erected for each quarterly 
ingress a year and all the lunations are useful. Locations selected de- 
pend on the subject matter. Here is a juncture where a maze cf com- 
putations and stacks cf charts can form which defeats the basic study; 
direct and simple means cf aiding a conclusion without nit-picking the 
impossible. 
Often it is sad and very wry to read or hear about some group of 
scholars, economists and statisticians had compiled masses of data which 
programmed a huge computer. The answer was that employment would 
increase and in another period cf so many months unemployment would 
shrink to so much. It is all very well but grasp the time and efforts in- 
volved to conclude these generalizations. Your batting average may 
never be 100% but with some time and concerted effort it can be far 
ahead of the pro group. Of course, we also have to be realistic in realiz- 
ing the majority only listen to what it wants to hear and what fits their 
hopes or misgivings at the time. 
Forecast a probable boom and no one believes it. When it occurs 
they say they are sorry they didn't listen. Forecast an economic or mar- 
ket peak and a barrage cf quotes that so and so, or this and that source, 
states things are going much higher. Then remorse when the peak is 
confirmed no action was taken. But that is the way of life; people work- 
ing out their own bumbling destiny the hard way and often to die in 
frustration and considerable despair. Generally denied only a very few 
exert the effort and stamina to find Nature's immutable laws and actu-

--- PAGE 68 of 143 ---

64 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
ally heed them. Only very bad forecasts, which are from 50 to 100% 
wrong, are generally heeded as they seem to have the profound ability 
to get into print and be widely quoted. A person has to dig out his own 
progress if it is to be lasting. It can open up extraordinary opportunities. 
Learn through texts the inherent qualities and features cf each planet 
as experienced from ancient times. Expansive and generally benefic by 
themselves are Jupiter and Venus; Mars vigorous, aggressive, forceful, 
etc. And the angular relations are extremely significant. Briefly, two 
classes cf angles dominate; one is the 90° span cf 90, 45, 22 Va, etc; the 
other the 120° group cf 120, 60, 30, 15, etc. Sometimes both occur in- 
terlocked at one time such as 3 15's making a 45. These related degrees 
are, with inherent planet qualities, intensely important and often super- 
sede the various complete chart figures. 
Close grasp cf the significance and operation cf angular relationships 
are very important. In the concluding section cf this work these angles 
become the foundation cf the program used to define probable market 
trends as to prices and timing cf swings and probable amplitude, using 
the daily, weekly and monthly price ranges cf stocks and commodities. 
The preceding two sections—major cyclic trends and cyclic interpre- 
tation factor are a simplified foundation for the real goal cf workable 
methods.

--- PAGE 69 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TEN 
AN "OVER
7'—SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF 
ASTRO-CYCLE INTERPRETATION 
Traditionalists call for the erection cf astro chart figures based on a 
precise time and place. For mundane subjects such as business and 
market trends this means charting the exact time cf the four quarterly 
Ingresses cf the Sun as each quarter-year begins. The place is the 
locality considered the center cf the subject such as a national capital. 
Supplementing the Ingress figures are each New Moon, and sometimes 
each Moon Quarter. This practice is mandatory for precise results. 
The new student trying to get into the field without the tedium cf 
perhaps months cf study may find this simple method encouraging and 
profitable, and ignore tradition. 
The initial requirement is an ephemeris for the period to be studied. 
The immediate and current year usually contains the interest. A geo- 
centric eohemeris is needed; this is a revised version cf the official 
heliocentric ephemeris issued by a number cf governments for military, 
naval and other astronomical applications. As we are interested in the 
effects cf solar and other cosmic radiation and reflective rays on the 
Earth a heliocentric (Sun as center cf the angular relationships) 
ephemeris would be a distortion from the standpoint cf the Earth. 
Most complete ephemeris is RAPHAEL'S for the year desired. Pub- 
lished in London for a century it is available for about $3 a copy through 
most bookshops. More available and in a simple format is the Rosicru- 
cian Fellowship Ephemeris, P. O. Box 713, Oceanside, Calif. 92054 at 
$1.50 for each year desired. (Note; although not used in this simple 
method later work will require a Table cf Houses. Several are available 
with the most economical and simple to use is that cf the Rosicrucian 
Fellowship. The various blank forms may be deferred.) 
Instead cf theorizing let us take an example and work on it as an 
illustration you can check out for yourself. It is the afternoon of 
August 1st, 1976. Current newspapers and business magazines are 
chortling over bullish trends. Opinion seems general things are con- 
solidating for a long boom. The statistics continue to reflect steady gains 
since the upswing began in early 1975 in business and the low cf stocks 
late in 1974. Very nice! We can go back to sleep, buy more stocks and 
continue to rake in the business as things are better than they were and 
are all set to be better for a long time ahead!! Typical? Yes, and usually 
wrong. 
So get a sheet cf paper, a pencil or a pen that writes an original, and 
that ephemeris for the year 1976 and August. On the 1st we find funny 
looking things heading columns cf figures. We want the page carrying 
DECLINATION OF THE PLANETS. 
Out of this apparent maze cf columns we shall only check three;

--- PAGE 70 of 143 ---

66 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Uranus ( 3 ) 
Saturn ( ^ ) 
Jupiter (if ) 
3 Scorpio (Jfl) 
6Leo (<?L) 
27 Taurus (^) 
Taurus in the zodiac circle is opposition (180') Scorpio and 
square (90°) Leo. This means that Leo is square both Taurus 
and Scorpio. 
In the above Jupiter has small potency as it is not "in orb" to Uranus 
and Saturn, but the latter are in orb. Taking the three as a unit the 
news reports and forecasts are "whistling in the dark to bolster their 
spirits." The foundation is precarious. 
Reference 60 Section II Jupiter in Taurus ( U b ) is a 6th sign house 
in a 2nd house sign; our notes show this involves money for national 
health and safety (it could refer to vaccine, relief from flood) but also 
an unusual demand for money by organized workers. 
Next, the Uranus in Scorpio ( 6 Til) again refer to page 60; an 8th 
sign house in a 10th sign house suggests a large number cf public policies 
are viewed as irrational in matters cf spending and taxation, foreign 
affairs, currency and foreign exchange. 
And last, Saturn in Leo ( h fb ) a 5th house sign in an 8th sign house. 
National apprehension over children and their lack cf freedom cf choice 
in education, low standards of public morality, debate on national budg- 
ets and taxes, lack cf financial speculative confidence. 
The only action in this three-way is Saturn (curtailment, discipline) 
is directly in mutual assault with Uranus (innovation, impulsive, emo- 
tional) and with Jupiter momentarily inactive (out cf orb) we have a 
nation confined largely to routine pursuits. It seems to reflect the early 
August state due to the political situation. The same forces affect other 
nations; various degree of turmoil, revolution, war and war threats are 
occurring in Asia, Africa and Middle-East. 
As the newspapers report, the statistics are good; but the astro-cycle 
data state it is a neutral and precarious situation. Conclusion: it is a 
period for caution. For the probable time and direction cf change we 
examine Jupiter's pattern several months from now. Then the basis cf 
a forecast will begin to form. 
In the astro-cycle data the obvious basis for the upswing in the stock 
market from mid-1970 (the very favorable aspects between Jupiter, 
Saturn and Uranus) was due to subside as sign changes developing in 
the last half cf 1972 neutralized the bullish psychology. The Transport 
Average tried a new high in the second quarter (1972) to broach the 
preceding triple highs cf 1966, 1967 and 1968-9 but failed by a fraction 
and declined. But the Industrial Average continued strong and sur- 
mounted their preceding 1966 and 1968 highs until January 1973 when 
weakness took hold. Jupiter in Capricorn formed a conjunctions with 
the Moon's Node and a full square (90") to Uranus in Libra while 
Saturn was retrograde and neutral in Gemini. In January the Trans-

--- PAGE 71 of 143 ---

"OVER— SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF INTERPRETATION 67 
port Average broke the preceding low in October and implied a bear 
market, although full confirmation cf the Transports by the Industrials 
did not occur until November 1973. This established a very bearish 
market climate for 1974. 
Historically this has become an unusual area cf national economic 
affairs. Peculiar intrusions into supply-demand factors cf commodities 
and the export markets with unprecedented price distortions were 
dwarfed by revelations which ruined the Administrative branch of 
government. In our "over
1-simplified astro-cycle examination for 1974 
we find the Moon's Node in Sagittarius with Saturn in opposition 
(180'). Then in April Saturn moved from Gemini into Cancer (this 
crosses the Mid-Heaven c£ the Jimliv 4th 1776 U. S. Chart^ the 4th 
House Sign and 7th Sign HotHseworking toward the square (90°) re- 
lation to Uranus in Libra (7th House Sign, 9th Sign House). 
By September 1974 stock market liquidation became rampant, 
despite a weak (retrograde) Jupiter forming a trine angle to Saturn, 
as both the Moon's Node and Uranus remained virtually unchanged. 
Then, late in November, Uranus moved into Scorpio and conditions 
changed. By mid-December Jupiter was direct again, moving toward a 
trine with Saturn, which was beginning to get the effects cf a growing 
trine from Uranus. T o strengthen the pattern the Moon's Node reached 
a climax by crossing opposite the 9th degree cf Gemini, with a sextile 
from Pluto which was trine the 9° of Gemini. This was the spot for a 
massive low in the stock market for a recovery cf at least 15 to 18 
months. 
If careful study of the foregoing three paragraphs in relation to the 
ephemerides for the years is made by the notes cf the economic key- 
words, the technique should become clear. But you are stymied by some 
factors not mentioned in the examples. They involve the Moon's Node, 
Pluto and the Jupiter-Saturn link. 
In Section I the discussion on the twenty-year cycle was the periodic 
conjunctions cf Jupiter and Saturn. For more than 100 years cf busi- 
ness and investment market statistics, beginning in 1812, the booms 
and depressions were geared to the angular relation cf Jupiter and 
Saturn. An enormous amount of time and expense was applied to col- 
lect the data and public records earlier than 1897. Thej-elationship,^, 
was further explored in the 1930's apd—presented in a book by James 
Mars Langham. ~~ ^

--- PAGE 72 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ELEVEN 
THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES 
BETWEEN PLANETS 
The 360" circle cf the astro chart is divided into twelve segments of 
30° each. These segments are the signs. Their significance forms a 
division; four signs are cardinal, four are fixed and four are mutable; 
and another division cf three Fire, three Earth, three Air and three 
Water. The first forms a triangle visually and the second group a 
square when drawn on the 12 segment circle. Thus, planet aspects are 
cf two groups, the square and the triangle or trine. 
There is the conjunction or 0° in both groups. The square group 
includes; the semi-square or 45" (/)> the square or 90° (□), the 
sesquiquadrate or 135° ( □,) which is 90° plus 45°, and the opposition 
or 180° ( ,9 ). Generally all are unfavorable. 
The trine group has the conjunction under certain conditions, the 
semi-sextile or 30" ( Y ), the sextile or 60° (>)<)> the trine or 120° (A ) 
and the quincunx or inconjunct or 150° (A). Parallels (||) depend on 
the plants involved. 
In market trend interpretation the squares generally are bearish, the 
trines bullish. Again there are circumstances when such an arbitrary 
rule does not apply. There are specific answers to such problems but 
things become rather involved in more advance studies involving sign 
location cf a planet and its Detriment, Exaltation, Fall, Critical degree 
and Orb cf Aspect. And expecting precise action, such as a market 
peak, at the day and hour an aspect becomes exact, may fail. Often 
the reason is that an orb cf aspect should be allowed, about 2 to 5% 
usually is generous, PLUS a trigger. A trigger is a fast moving planet 
coming into the major aspect, particularly Mars, sometimes Mercury. 
Hindsight will discover it on study from which experience will develop 
so advance interpretation can take place. No two situations ever are 
alike. 
The conjunctions cf Jupiter and Saturn were but a small part cf 
defining market trends. But when the various aspects noted in the fore- 
going are followed in the ephemeris cf the statistics cf the year being 
examined the parallel between planetary aspects and the statistical 
trends soon takes form. 
In the 1930's and 1940's this usual pattern began to break up. Dis- 
concerting lags began to appear; most data was failing. Examination 
found Uranus aspects becoming potent. Some cf the phenomena cf the 
Uranus 84 year cycle was detailed in Section I. As time went on it was 
found that the shift cf economic and money power from private forces 
to the budding Washington Bureaucracy was developing a new set cf 
rules. Private Capitalism and Free Enterprise were more and more 
coming under political control through rules cf a bureaucratic structure. 
It was the principal index to the panic liquidation of 1973 and 1974

--- PAGE 73 of 143 ---

THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES BETWEEN PLANETS 
69 
discussed in the foregoing. T o the almost perfect score presented by 
James Mars Langham on the interaction cf Jupiter and Saturn in busi- 
ness and finance for over a century it has been more complicated since 
World War II. 
Another useful factor applied to the interpretive procedures in the 
foregoing is to use the cycle data cf the Moon's Node. 
The symbol in the ephemeris cf the Moon's Node is ( ft ). Other nodes 
exist but we shall ignore them at this time. This Moon's Node we 
mention is more exactly the Moon's North Node. It regresses (counter- 
clockwise instead cf the clockwise movement cf the planets) and makes 
the full circle in about 6 months more than 18 years—for our purpose 
call it 18 years. 
Using that unexplained and unique North American continental 
point cf 7°—9° Gemini as zero or starting point an unusual business 
cycle cadence again appears. It seems to intensify and at times cushion 
the interaction patterns cf Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. (Note; recall it 
was shown how potent this zero node point was in the timing cf the 
Uranus cycle, for example the timing of the first settlement in 1523, etc.) 
Application cf the aspects, both bearish and bullish, to the Moon's 
Node in the ephemeris for each year, and using the Gemini point as the 
conjunction on which to form sextiles, squares, trines, etc, the major 
market trend takes form. The squares approximate major lows. But 
lows after sextiles differ in intensity than lows after trines. In 1976 
there is a quincunx or inconjunct following an opposition. Squares for 
the lows in this particular cycle were early 1961, 1970 and 1979. For 
study it is suggested, beginning with the square following the sextile in 
1932, process each year of the stock market with the Moon's Node 
aspects in order to grasp the method yourself. 
Another element in our chain cf factors is the probable effects of 
Pluto. Relatively new in tracing its probable use it appears to intrude 
underworld thinking related to autocratic power ranging from gang 
warfare to misuse cf established authority. It has generally been as- 
signed to rule the sign Scorpio. This bears very careful scrutiny. For 
many reasons having no place for discussion here it seems to relate 
more to Aries than Scorpio. Debate is unnecessary but in defining 
situations where Pluto is prominent consider the Aries climate. Inci- 
dentally for a long, long time Mars has been assigned to rule Aries AND 
Scorpio, with Pluto assigned as co-ruler of Scorpio which is subject to 
doubt. 
When some facility has been acquired in co-ordinating the planets in 
their House Signs, then their Sign Houses, their aspect relationships 
from the proper ephemeris, on your note pad, refer to the Keywords in 
the group arrangement which follows for your budding interpretation 
progress. In the course cf time you then will want to cast complete 
charted figures using the Table cf Houses already mentioned. Locations 
selected as mentioned also start with the Ingresses and then the Luna- 
tions.

--- PAGE 74 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWELVE 
COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH 
HOUSE-SIGNS AND ASPECTS 
Trend conditions at any given time are vital in any investment 
action. If the major trend is upward investment hazards are minimal; 
making commitments in a major downward trend or during a rally 
correction in a downward trend can be hazardous. Let's try to illustrate 
a process by which circumstances can be defined. We select a memo- 
rable and most confused period. 
In mid-May 1942 both the national and international situation was 
considerably mixed. The impact cf an attack on Pearl Harbor in the 
preceding December had the domestic scene in a general state of 
feverish doubts. Turn to Raphael's ephemeris for 1942 and note May 
15th. There was a lunation or New Moon at 5:45 AM. GMT, but we 
will not plot it out at this point as too complicated. The individual 
planet positions have our attention. 
Neptune (T ) in (11])) Virgo: 7th Sign-House in a 6th House-Sign, 
heavily afflicted (negative aspected). This reflects rumors, false and 
true; and a chaotic emotional state among the masses relating to Armed 
Services, food, clothing, jobs and the enemy. With a wide conjunction 
by Moon's Node, which is precisely square the critical national point of 
9° Gemini ( X ) which signals a classic low in economic trends, it can be 
a memorable point in history. 
Uranus ( S ) in 5th Sign-House and 3rd House-Sign, a general state 
cf apparent disruption and seemingly chaotic situation in transportation, 
feverish attempts to coordinate plans and action by authority, which is 
downgraded by public emotions, as 
Saturn ( h ) in 6th Sign-House in 3rd House-Sign, is precisely at 
apparent conjunction with Uranus. The people (6th) and 3rd (com- 
munications, ideas) feel scared, uncertain, even licked. Briefly adding 
to the crisis is Mercury ( 5 ) in its 1st and 4th Sign-Houses in the 3rd 
House-Sign, amplifying the foregoing and adding worry over property, 
crops, etc. And then Venus (?) 12th Sign-House in 1st House-Sign in 
square aspect (unfavorable) to Mars in Cancer (25) 4th Sign-House in 
10th House-Sign. This latter hopes but distrusts national leadership; 
briefly void-of-course (without strong aspects) from the Sun-Moon con- 
junction. 
If we think these notes on each planet through we realize the same 
vibrations are world-wide. Obviously the response varies from environ- 
ment and location how each factor may be most dominant. 
Turn to the chapter on MUNDANE RULERSHIPS. The Raphael 
Ephemeris positions as cf noon GMT May 15th, 1942 are entered in 
rulers/lip charts set up for Washington, Tokyo, Berlin and London as

--- PAGE 75 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
71 
appended. Note all planet positions are alike but houses differ. The 
foregoing interpretation applies to all of them but the locality charts 
reflect enormous differences in the accents and psychology in each 
location. 
The London figure has an 11th house concentration which centers 
national affairs on government policies and finance, planning, legislation, 
business and national policies. Ruler cf the 10th (leadership) in the 
Ascendant (the people) marks a belligerent unity with Venus in 10th 
enthusiasm; dogged will to come out on top. 
Berlin differs little in problems and practice except Pluto is on the 
Ascendant (The People) reflecting a full dictatorship. The Venus to 
Pluto aspect is waning and past the MC; and square Mars dominates 
the 12th, amply reflecting a police state. 
The Tokyo figure has leadership (10th) placed in 7th (foreign ad- 
versaries), indicated by the Sun, and most concentration on 7th house 
(foreign) affairs and 8th house (costs and plans cf 7th). The people 
(Mars ruler cf 1st and 6th) giving cooperation as the square cf Venus 
is below the horizon confined to misgivings by youth and children. 
Neptune marks illusions cf success while the Node in the 10th marks 
a feeling cf well being. 
The Washington chart has the Gemini concentration past the Nadir 
and working upward with all-out attention to planning, finance and all 
resources directed to (Saturn ruling 10th) conj. Uranus ruling 11th 
(legislation, etc) on longer term. Neptune in 6th allows unleashed 
rumors, but the people (Asc) are unifying (Venus Aries) with a spirit 
of willingness to fight in the streets (ruler cf 1st at cusp cf 4th), if 
necessary; a vigor is stirring. 
This chart should be something cf a classic. It marks most positions 
under the horizon (the low ebb cf a cycle) but most positions rising 
(new beginnings). In the latter is the major conj. cf Saturn-Uranus in 
Gemini with Mercury and Jupiter. I" a nation, emotionally and physi- 
cally, was ever lower it is hard to find. That it is a low is reflected by 
the Node precisely square its critical point at 9° Gemini FOLLOWING 
a Trine (this differsfrom a subsequent square following sextile by the 
Node). 
As noted several times 7 to 9 degrees cf Gemini mark a unique 
national hinge or critical point. The Node takes about I8V2 years for a 
complete cycle, something over 9 years for each half. Its apparent mo- 
tion is counter-clockwise. To further explore the background the 
England critical national point seems to work out at 14° cf Gemini. Un- 
til recent years comment was constant that major British events always 
had a similar counterpart later in the United States. British devalua- 
tion, British stock market bear markets, British election upsets and 
some time later much the same appeared in American affairs. Usually 
it timed to the aspects to the Node critical points.

--- PAGE 76 of 143 ---

72 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
NIW UOOH—M»y 16, 5*. 46fll. Si. •.». 
M Lat. Dec. Lat. Dec. Lat. Dec. 
10 
MAY, 1942. 
[R AP H ABL'S 
Neptune. 
1N21 
1 21 
1 21 
1 21 
1 20 
I 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
I 20 
1 20 
2N15 
2 15 
2 16 
2 17 
2 18 
0S11 
0 11 
0 11 
0 11 
0 10 
2 18 
2 19 
Herechel. | Saturn. 
19N49 
19 51 
19 52 
19 54 
19 55 
1S4718N13 
1 4618 17 
1 4618 20 
1 46'18 24 
1 4618 27 
Jupiter. 
Lat. Dec. 
0 S 13 
0 13 
0 13 
0 13 
0 12 
22N57 
22 58 
23 0 
23 2 
23 3 
0 10; 20 
1 46|18 
1 4618 
1 4518 
1 4518 
1 45 18 
10:20 
10120 
1020 
10120 
10120 
10t20 
30 
34 
37 
40 
44 
"47 
50 
53 
56 
590 
20 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
Mars. 
Lat, 
1N25 
1 25 
1 25 
1 25 
1 24 
1 24 
1 24 
1 24 
I 23 
1 23 
Declin. 
24N50 
24 47 
24 44 
24 41 
24 36 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
10 23 
1 23 
1 22 
1 22 
1 22 
1 21 
1 21 
mmsTPF 
24N49 
24 46 
24 43 
24 39 
24 34 
24 28 
24 22 
24 15 
24 
8 
24 
0 
23 61 
23 41 
23 31 
23 20 
23 
9 
T)" D Sidereal 
M W Time, 
B. M. S. 
2 35 o 
2 39 4 
2 43 1 
2 46 58 
2 50 
© 
Long. 
iU O X-O A/if 
w ] 
TH 
F 
S 1 
» I 
2 54 
2 58 
3 2 
3 6 
3 10 
11 26 
12 24 
13 22 
54T4 20 
51 
© 
Dec. 
3415 
44 15 
52 15 
59 16 
3 14 
3 18 
3 22 
3 26 
3 30 
3 34 
3 38 
3 42 
3 46 
3 50 
15 19 
16 17 
17 15 
18 13 
19 11 
5 
Long. 
3 / 44 
18 47 
3v^38 
18 11 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
26 
43 
59 
16 
32 
47 
3 
18 
32 
47 
2=522 
16 10 
29 35 
12X41 
25 30 
D 
Lat. 
5 1 
5 2 
4 42 
4 3 
3 11 
2 9 
1 1 
oss 
1 16 
ST 5 
20 29 
2 y 44 
14 51 
26 53 64 52 
D 
Dec. 
15 58 
17 58 
18 42 
18 
]) Long. I t Dec. 
Att.lA G 35 
11? 16 
26 14 
10V157 
20 
11(25 
14 17 
16 32 
13 56 
10 40 
6 55 
2 57 
95=19 
22 55 
■6X11 
19 7 
1T49 
33115 
54 12 
IN 6 
5 2 
8 42 
11 58 
14 43 
14 18 
26 37 
8y48 
20 53 
2n51 
24 58 
25 56 
26 54 
27 52 
28 49 
3 53 
3 57 
4 1 
4 5 
4 9 
29 47 
0n45 
1 43 
2 40 
3 38 
26 Tn 
13 42 
17 38 
21 35 
25 31 
29 28 
33 25 
42 19 
32(19 
21119 
8119 
54!l9 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
8n49 
20 42 
20^33 
<14 24 
5 1 
4 56 
4 38 
4 8 
54i26 19 4813 27 
71 8ft21 
1920 35 
31 3nj; 5 
15 56 
29 13 
4 35 
5 33 
6 31 
7 28 
8 26 
9 23 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
12—59 
27 15 
1113.58 
27 3 
12? 20 
27 38 
37 
38 
0 34 
ON 34 
1 42 
2 
3 
14 46 
26 38 
8as28 
20 21 
2A19 
14 26 
26 48 
90128 
22 31 
6=2= 3 
27 
32 
OS 20 
S 34 
1 
11 
44 
19 
41 
20 3 
413,33 
19 28 
4? 40 
19 69 
5^14 
48 
52 
First QcaRTia—Hay 23, OA. 10m. 37s. a.m. 
These pages are reproduced from the 1942 Raphael's Ephemeris with the permission 
of W. Foulshatn 85 Co. Ltd., Berks, England

--- PAGE 77 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
Full Moon—May 30, M. 28m. 53r. a.m. 
EP HEM E R IS] 
HAY, 1942. 
11 
Venus. 
Lat, 
OS 56 
1 4 
1 12 
1 19 
1 26 
Deolin. 
11 1 32 
131 38 
151 43 
171 48 
191 52 
21 
23 
25 
27 
29 
312 
IE" ' 
H 
2 S 49 
2 6 
1 21 
0 36 
ON 9 
0 56 
1 43 
2 30 
3 18 
4 5 
4 53 
5 41 
6 29 
7 17 
8 5 
8 52 
2S27 
1 44 
0 59 
0 13 
ON 33 
1 19 
2 6 
2 54 
3 41 
4 29 
IN 23 
1 41 
1 56 
2 8 
2 17 
6 53 
7 41 
8 28 
Lat. 
Mercury. 
19N51 
21 6 
22 10 
23 4 
23 48 
2 24 
2 26 
2 26 
2 21 
2 12 
2 0 
1 44 
1 25 
1 2 
) 34 
) 5 
T" 
Long. 
Declin. 
24 23 
24 49 
25 5 
25 14 
25 16 
25 11 
25 0 
24 44 
24 22 
23 57 
23 27 
20N30 
21 39 
22 38 
23 28 
24 
7 
24 37 
24 58 
25 11 
25 16 
25 14 
25 
6 
24 53 
24 34 
24 10 
23 43 
D « 
Node. 
1011128 
10 21 
10 15 
10 9 
10 
9 56 
9 50 
9 43 
9 37 
9 31 
T 
Long. 
9 24 
9 18 
9 12 
9 5 
8 59 
8 52 
Mutual Aspects. 
2. JitL. [PV-hrf#- 
3. ® QV.5*9, AV. 9<P* 
4. 51J.8 h, 6 V. 
5. ® AS. 9*h, •»!?• 
[8-1 h. XV. 
7. ® X 21. fi P21, *E_. 
9. 9 PL. 9AL. 
10. 9VJ. 
U. 9 PJ. 
13. SQL. 
14. ©Ph- 
is. ® 124- 9PV. 
17. SQ4. 
18. ® AV. 9 A L- 9nj. 
19. SAW- 
21. ® P W, S A h.<f AW.QV. 
22. ® 8 W. J PL- 
23. ® A8, 8 h. 8 A h. 
25. ® * L. 
28. 9*$. SX v. ZIDV 
29. S PL- 8 P4. 
30. 9*4 
!*4, Xh. V V. 
Lunar 
Long. Long. 
h 
Long. 
27IIJ28 
27^26 
27 25 
27 24 
27 23 29 
29 b 13 
29 17 
29 20 
29 24 
27 
29 b 5 
29 12 
29 20 
29 28 
21II23 
21 35 
21 47 
21 59 
29 35|22 11 
Long. 
3QS12 25H 4 
3 49 26 8 
4 25 
5 2 
5 39 
27 12 
28 17 
29 21 
5 
Long. 
22 b 58 
24 56 
26 52 
28 44 
0n34 A 
□ 
9 27 
j»27 
22 29 30 
21 29 34 
20 29 37 
19 29 41 
18 29 44 
29 43 
29 50 
29 58 
on o 
0 13 
or 26; 2 
1 31 4 
2 371 5 
3 421 7 
4 48,8 
21| 
41 □ 
44| 
21|* 
541 
Q 
18 29 48 
16 27 
29 51 
29 55 
29 58 
On 2 
20 27 11' 0 
21 27 
25 27 9 
26 27 
j» 27 
1 
1 
1 15 
1 23 
1 31 
0 24 
24 
24 
25 
25 
1 39 
1 46 
1 54 
2 2 
2 10 
17 II 
"29|12~ 
42|12 
55 13 
814 
21 14 
5 5310 23; A 
6 59 
8 5 
9 12 
10 18 
24 16 
34115 
47JI6 
016 
27 16 
17,26 
25 26 
48 27 
56'27 
49* 
V 
□ 
6)6 
L 
38 
23 
3 
39 
10 A 
□ 
37124 
44|24 
52 25 
025 
825 
17125 
□ 
V* 
L 
V 
L 
*1* V 
Z * 
v 
A * i 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
Last Qcastxk—May 7, Ch 12m. S5«. p.m.

--- PAGE 78 of 143 ---

74 
Tokyo,Japan 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
May 15th, 1942 
36 N 140 E 
19 
14 
21 
Qj 
11 
19 
0°^ 
24° » D © 
12 
12 
14 
14 
19 
11 
VS 
21 
14 
Most planets past MC and in decline; implies that several years cf 
increasing problems soon will begin. 
Leadership (10th) ruler in 7th reflects most attention to foreign af- 
fairs; attention to resources C4th), propaganda (3rd) and national mo- 
rale (5th). Dictatorial policies (Pluto) past zenith but continues popular 
(trine Venus).

--- PAGE 79 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
75 
Berlin, Germany 
May 15th, 1942 
52 N 13 E 
22 
3 
or 
4 
r, 
55 
B30a, 
a1 
22 
O) 
T1I3 
13 
12 
T 
13 
3* 
22 
4 
55 
3 
22 
12 
Pluto (dictatorship) on Asc (people) trine Venus at MC, marks prob- 
able peak cf success and power, but the sequence may not be grasped 
quickly due to the concentration in the 11th house. 
Neptune in 3rd (propaganda) fools the people successfully and they 
have a sense cf well-being (Node in 2nd) (money).

--- PAGE 80 of 143 ---

76 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Washington, D. C. 
May 15th, 1942 
39 N 77 W 
12 
21 
26 
T 
10 
21 
21 
33 
33 
27 
HE 
26 
Most positions below horizon but rising; conjunction cf Uranus 
Saturn; receding conjunction cf Jupiter; Node exactly square 9° Gemini. 
Mars, ruler of Asc (the people) at cusp cf 4th; a major low point. Major 
low in morale and values—a bullish index with Jupiter nearing 26° 
from Saturn.

--- PAGE 81 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
77 
London, England 
May 15th, 1942 
52 N 0 E 
24 
10 
8 
Oc 
-L 
>- 
27 
5) 
40 1 
14 
H2 
4 
oi 
14 
127 
L? 
[40 
'24 
10 
All positions at the East and rising; the heavy concentration in the 
11th house reflects concentrated efforts in a dogged and aggressive na- 
tional attitude (Mars rising in Asc (people) trine Venus near MC (love 
for leaders). Saturn Uranus conjunction reflects confidence and aid 
from 7th (foreign) and 8th (foreign resources).

--- PAGE 82 of 143 ---

78 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Millions cf dollars in manhours have been used to collect statistics, 
catalogue them and then run them through computers to try to define 
the cycles cf business and its many facets. The result is a maze cf data. 
There are the 41 to 43 month cycles, the 41/2 year, 9 year, 10 years, 18 
year or three times the 18 year for a 54 year affair. All cf them are 
averages but acceptable by mathematical standards. For example, they 
locate several cycles cf varying length which when averaged come to 
nine years although none cf the cycles were precisely nine years dura- 
tion but anywhere between perhaps 7 and 12 years long. So 9 years 
becomes a measure and the thing never meets anticipations. Back to 
collecting data they go. The real core is apparent in the cycle cf the 
Node. 
But to get back to our May 1942 Washington figure. Here we have 
a beautiful low point for conclusions on which to make some market 
estimates. First, there are major signs cf a low ebb in national confidence 
and prospects cf a revival. Prices are much depressed and what might be 
termed over-sold. But the action cf the Node is the lead-off. After the 
square from Virgo to 9° cf Gemini there is nothing until 1946 to halt 
an uptrend. Additional evidence is as follows. 
Adverse or negative aspects between Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus 
depress, in one form or another, business activity and markets. A con- 
junction involving Saturn is notably severe. Such an event occurred 
when Jupiter was conjunct Saturn early in 1941 and then the Saturn 
Uranus conjunction in 1942. Relief from these depressing factors began 
to wane (angle relationships widened) as soon as the conjunctions be- 
came completed. Late in May 1942 Jupiter was approaching 26" away 
from Saturn, a bullish index, with little cf bearish importance until 
90° difference between Jupiter and Saturn appears. It occurs May 5th, 
1946, which approximates the high in markets since 1942. From early 
1946, factors were sustaining but not bullish until 1949, etc. 
We could proceed and get into Ingress and Lunation charts, the 
part of Parallels and the details cf interpretive method. It would soon 
tangle our goal cf a perspective cf market estimates. In our "over- 
simplified" method cf cycle interpretation we keep everything as simple 
as possible and confine it to the following: 
First, scanning the ephemeris positions for the period involved to 
note the interaction cf Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and the Node. Then we 
translate the positions into Sign-House and House-Sign notes. We can 
stop there and record when interaction occurs at critical angles cf 
favorable and unfavorable aspects. (Favorable are those in the triology; 
unfavorable in the quadrature as already detailed). Then a trend pros- 
pect can be concluded. 
Like statistical cycles reported these days about business, all agree 
they exist but the timing is something else. Every week in astro-cycles 
differs from any other week in history. Each week, each month and 
each year has to be plotted by itself. One thing that pushes the statisti- 
cian up the wall is the apparent 'retrograde' pattern cf a planet; it seems 
to go backward in its course and then go forward again. Sure, Jupiter

--- PAGE 83 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
79 
makes its complete cycle in 12 years but one year it seems to bounce 
back and forth and then suddenly it goes ahead on course. In most 
cases a planet in retrograde has a reduced potency; the things it signifies 
seem to stick to routine. 
It really does not disturb the situation except we simply are unable 
to can it, or tape or simplify the rules for cold storage use. We become 
like the chap who asked a world famous physician why, after all the 
expensive tests undeniably proved that a certain patient could not sur- 
vive more than a few weeks the patient was alive and apparently vig- 
orous after ten years. The physician is supposed to have replied: "Let's 
give thanks for what we know and not be over-disturbed over what we 
do not know." 
As familiarity with these factors emerges and facility in their use 
develops the goals cf confidence and profits will follow. It may be a 
cliche but 'knowledge is power' and in terms cf markets, whether stocks, 
bonds or commodities, knowledge can be profits, security and peace cf 
mind.

--- PAGE 84 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
PLANETARY ASPECTS 
OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS 
For ease cf interpretation the solar system is charted in a 360° circle 
divided into 12 sections called houses with the noon position the Mid- 
heaven and 10th house segment, and eastern (left) horizon the as- 
cendant and the 1st house. 
The angles or aspects between planets are divided into numerous 
divisions but in general the most useful are the fourths or squares, the 
triology or trines and the fifths or quintiles. The squares in general are 
classed as bearish, unfavorable and activating. The trines are bullish, 
favorable, serene, constructive and the expansion urge. 
The fifths or quintiles are generally ignored, but in mundane work 
covering markets and economic affairs they are very significant. Trend 
reversals usually are lost in the trine and the squares but are timed by 
the fifths. At the right a 360° circle has five divisions cf 72° each. 
Visualize also 10 divisions cf 36° each and 20 divisions cf 18" each; all 
useful. 
Often, to keep data clarified, it is well to consider waxing and waning 
aspects; as the angular relationship narrows it is waxing; as it widens it 
is waning. For example a waxing trine is labeled 120° while a waning 
trine is labeled 240°. 
Keep in mind the square group cf aspects, the 221/20, the 45°, 90°, 
135°, 180°. The trines relate to 15°, 30°, 60°, 120°, etc, but note 135° 
relates to 45° also. Apparent contradiction is adjusted by noting the

--- PAGE 85 of 143 ---

PLANETARY ASPECTS OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS 81 
nature cf the planets involved; a benefic such as Jupiter and Venus 
would have an aspect cf the bullish tendencies. 
The fifths or quintiles relate to 18°, 36°, 54°, 72°, etc. But quintiles 
often are turning or resolving areas. An upward market trend marked 
by a trine aspect situation which is waning comes to a quintile aspect 
(the trine changes to quintile) and a decline appears; if followed by a 
waxing square type cf aspect declining or bearish trends are confirmed. 
The rule continues to keep it simple; in general stay with the potent 
aspects cf the three groups and avoid trying to include every minor 
aspect.

--- PAGE 86 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN 
FORMATION OF A MARKET 
FORECAST 
In the preceding chapter we attempted to work into a perspective 
cf prevailing moods, opinions and circumstances dominant in a country 
at a specific time. By expanding the data we should be able to uncover 
something tangible to form some estimates cf market trend probabilities. 
The "over"-simplified method cf planetary houses and sign-houses 
is expanded slightly by placing the positions in a locality chart or 
figure. As an initial example one day is examined for its local reaction 
in three widely separated localities, viz, Kansas City, New York City and 
the Philippines. (See the charts and comments on the next page). 
T o follow, the next example presents six charts set up for crucial 
market points from 1956 to 1970 inclusive. Notes appended each 
chart, if examined with bar charts cf the stock market, such as the 
Industrials, for these years discussed, will aid in grasping the relation- 
ships. 
Let us briefly recapitulate the step by step program cf defining astro- 
cycles and then applying them as a basis cf interpretation in estimating 
probable speculative market trends. 
(A) We become familiar with planets in their natural house- 
signs and then sign-houses (see charts pages 59 and 60). 
(B) The zodiac is divided into 12 divisions or houses and we 
become familiar with each house meaning (page 39). 
(C) Geographical locality computing is learned (the complica- 
tions cf Ingresses, lunations, etc, are avoided). 
(D) We synthesize planets in house locations and use sign ruler- 
ship (see page 59) as in Horary methods for general estimates cf a 
chart. 
(E) Then natural house signs, plus sign-house interpretation, 
are added to consideration cf rulerships and the planetary powers 
for detailed data. 
(F) Keep in mind specific angular relationships cf Jupiter, 
Saturn and Uranus are the key to stocks in the plus or minus, 
bullish or bearish, critical degrees noted in the text. Each com- 
modity has its own combination cf one or two cf the foregoing plus 
either Mercury, or Venus, or Mars. 
August 18th, 1976. The planetary positions are for Noon GMT from 
Raphael's Ephemeris for 1976. A Table cf Houses (readily available 
is published by The Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, California, 318 
pp. $4.50, for Latitude 1 to 66 degrees) gives the house cusps. From the 
Locality Maps on pages 8 and 9 and the latitude and longitude cf each 
location compute the 10th House (MC) figure according to the direc- 
tions on page 7.

--- PAGE 87 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
83 
It is suggested that a series cf dates are selected, such as major highs 
and lows cf markets, and charts like these set up. It will develop facility 
in interpretation. For stocks use New York; for wheat, corn, etc, use 
Chicago,etc. Primary attention should be directed to Uranus, Saturn and 
Jupiter. 
New York, N. Y. 
41 N 71 W 
August 18th, 1976 
15 
10 
X, 
27 
op 
411 
7,9 G 
X 
24 
24 
■ii 
Cv 
26 
21 
22 
"o cO 
<a 
hi 
27 
I 41 
"H 
10 
15 
Outlook for stock market after Reblican Nat'l Convention today. 
Uranus square Saturn (ruling the 10 and 11th) reflects doubts over 
business outlook. Saturn and Jupiter, with Jupiter now out of Gemini 
into Taurus, approach 72° which is a bearish point. 
Stocks are bearish.

--- PAGE 88 of 143 ---

84 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Kansas City, Mo. 
39 N 95 W 
August 18th, 1976 
24 
16 
11 
2.0 
19 
19 
21 
12 
04 
04 
2S 
11 
24 
Nomination of a Republican for President. Unusually successful 
money, publicity and entertainment affair for the locality (ruler cf 10th 
in 2nd and Moon 2nd ruling 5th). Two planets on Desc. and two fac- 
tions. Ruler of 11th (incumbent) trine Neptune in 9th retrograde ruling 
1st (confused public situation).

--- PAGE 89 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
85 
South Mindanao, Philippines 
7 N 124 E 
August 18th, 1976 
5C 
n 
40 
Si 
o. 
A 
7° 
6 
m. 
271 
WS0!!!. 
i70ni 
^ ■ 
w 
5 
29° 8 U 
6 
8 
127 
5 
Same time as IM. Republican Convention; Earthquake and tidal 
wave with upwards cf 20,000 homeless. 
Uranus, ruler cf 4th on Asc. square Saturn in 10th at MC which is 
square eclipse point cf April 29th, 1976 on Descendant at 9° Taurus 
which is opposition Asc. and Uranus.

--- PAGE 90 of 143 ---

86 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Here are some examples for study. Check with a market chart of 
stocks for 75 years, for example. After the rise from a 1949 low the 
Averages reached 741 on the Industrials in 1962 and then declined to 
525. Subsequently was a rise to 1001 late in 1965 and a decline in 
1966 to 736. 
In 1956, after a steep rise from 1953, the Industrials wavered at 524. 
In 1956 and 1957 they formed a triple high; thus the wavering cyclic 
figures cf January and May 1956 which are appended. 
But the factors prevented confusion over prospects and patience was 
the only need. It is the Node and the interaction (angles) between 
Jupiter and Saturn and then Uranus with both cf them which gives us 
our basic keys. Keep it simple is the rule; rule breakers will not listen so 
they will tangle with Parallels, then add Venus, Mars and Mercury in 
the search for the absolutes which in reality do not exist.

--- PAGE 91 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
87 
New York City 
41 N 74 W 
January 15, 1956 
10 
27 j 
T 
41 
K 
24 
15 
V3 
V 
24 
V 
.Q
5 
ro 
l11! 
27 
'41 
u \ 
T15 
10 
a 
8 
15 
Here Saturn is square Jupiter—very bearish usually but here the 
square is brief and Jupiter is apparent retrograde weakening it. 
Trine to Uranus also weak as Uranus is retrograde. Then the Node is 
not at a critical point. Indication: probable peak in the offing, but not 
now.

--- PAGE 92 of 143 ---

88 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
March 6th, 1962 
10 
27 | 
T 
411 
15 
Y Vo 
24 
24 
43' "A, 
^n. 
27 
41 
Cpo 
10 
-_D 
15 
Bearish data first half cf year with Jupiter Saturn at 18" (bearish) 
Mars conjunct Jupiter opposition Uranus. Pluto square the Gemini 
point 7°—9°. Downside initial objective Node sextile 9° Gemini in late 
July and then September Jupiter Saturn cf bullish 27° point. Nothing 
significant to deter uptrend maturing until August 1965 with Node 9° 
Gemini.

--- PAGE 93 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
89 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
May 1st, 1956 
10 
271 
T 
411 
8' 
X 
24 
15 
>5 
CP 
24 
z
1 
28c 
1 
i ¥ 
TX 
27 
I 41 
Vo 
nj 
10 
a 
8 
15 
Node has reached opposition to 9° Gemini, a market top index. 
Neptune square Uranus heavy distribution; confusion over Uth and 
7th house public policies. 
Nothing bullish. Look for downside confirmation at Jupiter-Saturn 
72° point in mid-July. Probable low November 1957 when Node 
reaches 150" to 9° Gemini point and September Jupiter Saturn sextile 
confirmed.

--- PAGE 94 of 143 ---

90 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
These examples cf market trends from late in 1968 through 1971 
indicate cyclic data was correct, and economic opinion, professional 
judgment and 'insider' confidence were all wrong. It was a classic rout 
of the conglomerate craze, the pyramiding of growth stocks, and bloody 
nosing the wonder kids and their new fresh-from-graduate-school eco- 
nomics. 
Actually it was perhaps the sadest and ruinous time for the new 
generation of 'investors' convinced in the ease cf a fast buck. In reality 
it was 1929 in collapsed situations again, but instead cf the debt cf 
margin calls which could not be met, this collapse erased the buying 
capital of thousands, but who hold their certificates today hoping the 
improbable will occur and they may "get even."

--- PAGE 95 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
91 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
Nov 24th, 1968 
15 
10 
■Qffo 
b igc 
271 
T 
411 
X1 
1 
X 
24 
24 
1 
, ^ 
2.6' 
i11! 
I27 
' 41 
TK 
10 
15 
Transport Average has a new high but the Industrials failed by 6 
points and technical weakness expands. Jupiter near conjunct Uranus 
with both opposed by Saturn, a major bearish index. 
Saturn, ruling 10th, in the Asc., with Neptune ruling 12th in 7th— 
inherent decline of national confidence over leadership in foreign poli- 
cies.

--- PAGE 96 of 143 ---

92 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
January 1st, 1970 
15 
24 
10 
12 If 
IS 
29 
* 
27 
27 
41 
41 
10 
24 
Sept 1969 rally under Jupiter-Saturn 150" now exhausted with bear- 
ish Jupiter-Saturn 180'—rejection cf foreign affairs due to Jupiter in 
7th ruling 8th and 9th, opposed by Saturn in 2nd (money) ruling 10th 
(leadership policies). 
Technical structure very weak and nothing bullish until Node reaches 
9° in late April 1970.

--- PAGE 97 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
93 
New York City 
41 N71 W 
April 28th, 1970 
10 
% 
27 i 
T 
41 
O70» 
sT1 
°A 
X 
1 
X 
24 
15 
ti 
24 
1 
li 
27 
41 
rn 
10 
15 
Node at 9° Pisces in square to Geminin 9° critical point; due is an 
important low. Industrials have declined 368 points, more than 30%, 
since late in 1968. Technical rebound would carry to March 24th, 1971 
for 162° Jupiter Saturn with Jupiter stationery. Such a pattern would 
offer a low in early November 1971 with Node at 9° Aquarius, trine to 
Gemini 9°.

--- PAGE 98 of 143 ---

Section III 
MARKET CHARTS 
A CORRELATION OF 
THE GEOMETRICAL METHOD 
A simplified scientific procedure of charting the 
prices of grain and security markets. An aid 
in forecasting and co-ordinating price trends 
with cyclical and technical factors. 
Copyright 1938. 1961, & 1978 by L. J. Jensen 
All rights reserved

--- PAGE 99 of 143 ---

FOREWORD 
The charting fundamentals and their applications presented in this 
section originally were published by the author in the hook " MARKET 
CHARTS—A Correlation cf the Geometrical Method" copyright 1934, 
and for many years out cf print. This new edition continues virtually 
unchanged except for an added number cf working examples to il- 
lustrate workaday applications. 
More than fifty years have elapsed since I first began to delve into 
possible clues to panics and booms plus the never-ending constant price 
changes in markets for stocks and commodities in particular. That 
study brought intensive research in the late 1920's and became profes- 
sional advisory services until retirement in 1971. Advertising was never 
used as the clientele developed from readers cf several national publi- 
cations to which I was a regular contributor from 1933 to 1957 when I 
assumed full time effort as analyst for a Stock Exchange organization. 
Intrusion cf the biographical comment is to underscore that fifty 
years cf market efforts which contained some forty years cf first hand 
relations with people and organizations in markets produced experi- 
ence. Again and again many cf the finest people sought me out for 
suggestions in trading and investment procedure. Too many times mar- 
ket profits and their successful interpretation cf market potentials had 
turned sour. In a few instances the lessons were accepted, studied and 
then, following the basic factors devoid cf the 'fear and greed' emotions, 
success became realized. 
Human perception is blunted when too many trees block a view cf 
the forest. Tape watching, hanging over the news ticker, or carefully 
scrutinizing orders being written by a broker interspersed with shouts: 
"the floor is selling so-and-so," "Cargill is buying wheat," or "A big extra 
is about to be announced by such-and-such company," are suicidal. All 
a successful trader needs from a broker is confirmation cf buying and 
selling orders, and refusal to let the broker say more than to give quotes 
in order to satisfy his feeling cf continuing your good-will. Yes, stated 
bluntly, be student enough to make your decisions without any com- 
ment from anyone; if in doubt do not make the commitment. 
The axiom is that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing, which 
might be paraphrased to the concept that a little market success can 
make a dunce out cf a potential investor. Often a person checks market 
fluctuations in newspapers, chart books or simply conversations with 
others. Daily ranges cf prices become potential gold mines, or a 50% 
or more gain in the price cf a stock over a period cf weeks begins to 
form the might-have-been profit. With some extra funds available some 
ideas are gathered, or a 'hot-tip' is followed. Success in the form cf a 
good profit accrues. Now is the time to jump in again, usually in a larger 
transaction. The project works nicely. But this time no grabbing a fair

--- PAGE 100 of 143 ---

98 
MARKET CHARTS 
profit; 'inside' information says the commitment will double, or triple, 
or produce even greater gain. This person often hangs on too long; 
then a reaction develops. Instead cf getting out, the promise to get out 
when a rally appears is substituted. The rally fails or falls short and 
profits are eroded until all the commitment is in loss. In a stock the 
result is a candidate for wall-paper; in a commodity the option expires 
and a sale is mandatory unless delivery is accepted which is something 
else. 
Profitable speculation and investment in securities, or, in grain fu- 
tures, is principally dependent on how comprehensive a grasp the opera- 
tor has cf the technical factors at work within the markets. All the luck 
in the world never took the place cf astute technical knowledge, plus 
the ability to apply it. Without technical knowledge, in greater or lesser 
degree, the market operator is only a gambler naively "playing the mar- 
ket"; when, in consideration of the stakes involved, a small amount of 
study would enable him to become an intelligent speculator. 
With minor exceptions, all markets operate under basic natural laws 
which govern supply and demand. A rhythmic ebb and flow is always 
perceptible in the movements cf prices. It is by gauging this motion that 
the state cf supply and demand is interpreted. 
The purpose cf this brochure is to present methods cf interpreting the 
important technical factors operating in markets. The method cf ap- 
proach and the manner of application coincides, and is a part of, those 
ancient laws which form the foundation cf modern science. They have 
not, to my knowledge, ever been applied in this somewhat unique 
manner to the charted movements cf market prices. But, although the 
application may seem new and much cf the method cf co-ordination 
original, the entire foundation is as old as mathematics and philosophy. 
At first inspection, the methods cf procedure are likely to seem diffi- 
cult to apply readily. Invariably this is the situation whenever a new 
subject is first approached. However, I am confident that with a little 
application anyone interested in markets will be gratified with the 
results encountered. 
All those who are interested in markets, whether as a vocation, or 
avocation, cannot spend long periods cf time, or invest considerable 
money, for extensive economic research and study. Therefore the eco- 
nomic specialist and the economic service organizations. An automobile 
owner need not be an expert mechanic simply because he drives his car; 
but, some knowledge cf motor mechanics, together with a road map, 
contributes to the success cf any journey. So it is with market opera- 
tions: anyone with any market interests, large or small, always finds the 
relatively small time and trouble it takes to keep several market charts 
an investment that pays large profits in both money and a better sense 
cf confidence. With greater confidence comes power and the initiative 
ability for decisive, profitable action. 
In the majority cf instances commodity commitments are shunned. 
When more money becomes available commitments in another stock or 
a variety cf stocks occurs which becomes a 'portfolio' when in reality a 
mixed bunch cf stocks are carried in Street name in an account. In

--- PAGE 101 of 143 ---

MARKET CHARTS 
99 
the course cf years some become 'winners' and others 'losers'; an avoca- 
tion develops in a daily reading cf the market page quotations. 
Any person with the intention cf finding a means cf earning several 
thousands of dollars a year as self-employed, or as an avocation, makes 
careful preparation for the choice and then the operating know-how. 
The smallest sort cf retailing operation requires many elements to be- 
come successful. The Small Business Administration, which often plans 
and assists new business formations, reports four out cf five fail in five 
years. But emotionally anyone with interest in markets and a bit cf 
money believes winning is inevitable. E" there is one salient and primary 
fact to obey constantly, without the slightest deviation, and follow- 
through with patience, it is to: 
graph the statistics cf market action according to the means cf 
estimating time and price in daily and weekly price ranges. The 
geometrical rules presented in the text cannot be compromised at 
all. And adhere strictly to the market action revealed in the graphs, 
not rumors. 
Years ago a long time client revealed he had been a floor trader on 
the Chicago Board cf Trade for many years. Forced to retire due to 
health problems he requested an address change to reach him at a small 
village near Hudson's Bay in Northern Canada. A year or so later he 
reported intensive study cf this graph method had intrigued him that he 
was experimenting with 5 M bushels, mailing orders to Chicago by 
regular mail, which sometimes took ten days for delivery. He said he 
felt he was groping in the dark but handled it by stop-loss orders selected 
from trend channels cf the charts from the daily ranges picked up from 
several radio stations with market news broadcasts. It was a few years 
later he called on me to relate his losses, using the stops religiously, had 
been minimal, while some very handsome profits had been realized by 
acting on the potential swings and timing. This example leads me to 
suggest, as I have done many times: 
Invest your time in serious study and see you grasp how the appli- 
cation cf mathematical elements exhibits market activity. Only 
then venture commitments and your capital, based only on con- 
clusions drawn from your judgment. 
You may feel these comments are rather presumptuous and naive 
enough to imply you do not know better. Frankly, more than forty 
years cf experience have proven such reactions are a mistake. The more 
capital you may venture the greater the hazard if you cast them aside 
and ignore them. 
Fike a nautical chart aids the navigators at sea to maintain objectives 
and positions, market charts are cf tremendous value in all market 
transactions. Market charts are a graphic statistical view cf price move- 
ments in the market, sometimes from hour to hour, sometimes from 
day to day, week to week, month to month, and even a view cf year to 
year.

--- PAGE 102 of 143 ---

100 
MARKET CHARTS 
The problem of market activity is, in the final practical analysis, that 
cf prices. T o profit we must buy lower than we sell. It is trite to point 
out that a $100 stock is a bargain if it is about to move higher, while a 
$2 stock is expensive if it is about to go down. But, most people realize 
the greatest urge to buy just before a high is reached. The reason for 
this psychology is obvious. But its basis lies in the lack cf a grasp of 
much of the technical perspective of the market itself. 
So much material has been published on the importance cf the eco- 
nomic market charts during the last several years that market students 
no longer view charts lightly. Yet, cf all the methods I have examined 
and used the geometrical approach is the only form that enables the 
student to co-ordinate the fundamental laws of supply and demand, the 
the element of time, the problem cf resistance and objective and the 
basis of price, with the astro-economic cyclical factors. 
I am particularly indebted to my partner, Mr George E. Liggett, for 
the basic practical application of the geometrical method to the problem 
cf market trends. His first application cf phases of the method was used 
in grain markets over a decade ago. These basic ideas were later 
amplified and expanded by our associate, Mr Virgil Moore, now de- 
ceased. Best known as The Moon Man in the grain markets, Virgil 
Moore's phenomenal forecasts will be long remembered. His interpreta- 
tion cf markets was based almost entirely on the various phases cf the 
geometrical method cf charting. 
The material which follows warrants careful study. Each phase of the 
discussion is part cf an ultimate whole. It is suggested;—that the 
material is first read through carefully, without any attempt to apply the 
principles laid down. Then a general perspective will be attained, which, 
on second reading, will afford a quicker grasp of every step. Then apply 
the method to a chart of current interest. With practice will come 
facility, and as facility develops the many combinations and possibilities 
of this method will be found.

--- PAGE 103 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
GEOMETRICAL FUNDAMENTALS 
The increasing use of charts, as a concise visual record of the fluctu- 
ations of grain and security market prices, indicates their decided value 
in speculative and investment operations. Particularly since the crash in 
1929, a comprehensive grasp cf the technical factors operating within 
markets is recognized to be of importance, and in many ways supersede 
such items as company earnings, overhead, fixed charges, credit and 
indebtedness. Statistical items bear on problems cf market prices, but 
markets boom and crash before such news is available. Market charts 
usually signal important changes. They are keys to the factors of supply 
and demand which operate in every market. Market technicalities, as 
registered on charts, take first place in all forms of market interpretation. 
Over recent years, a great deal of material has been published on 
methods of charting market statistics. Much of the material is of great 
value; but, principally to illustrate the record cf the past or to estimate 
current technical conditions. Very little of the material is of the slightest 
use in forecasting. But, as the means cf "half a loaf" of observational 
material is better than none, so even a meager chart is better than none. 
The idea that all markets operate according to the natural laws of 
supply and demand, in a rhythmic ebb and flow of price changes, is 
rather difficult to grasp at first glance. It is simpler to take the view 
that all prices are either "put up" or "pushed down" by several, or one, 
"insiders." But, like most half truths, such a premise simply distorts a 
true grasp cf markets. Prices are and have been "rigged," but no 
"rigger" or pool met success bucking the general trend. Markets move 
in waves, ofttimes against the wishes of the majority or in spite cf every 
human effort to reverse the trend. The explanation cf this condition 
lies in those natural laws which are related, and are a part of, the 
cyclical movements cf mass psychology. 
It is in an examination of these natural cycles that both individual 
investors and speculators, and the managers of large funds can locate 
the key to the many inexplicable market trends. Anything that is as 
prosaic and practical as markets might appear to have little in common 
with ancient philosophy, but market trends are simply an exact reflection 
of the total hopes, fears and desires cf great masses of people. Markets 
are a part of living and so is philosophy. 
Lack of space prevents an examination cf the philosophical and psy- 
chological backgrounds of markets. It is necessary, however, so as to 
clarify phases of the geometrical method of charting, to refer to some 
of the fundamental data. 
Practically all modern "discoveries" are new applications, and new 
variations, of things which have gone before. The extraordinary de- 
velopments in modern atomic and electronic science were bequeathed 
to us from ancient times. The observations of Thales of Miletus in

--- PAGE 104 of 143 ---

102 
MARKET CHARTS 
about 600 B.C., the work cf Democritus in Ancient Greece, and Leucretius 
in Ancient Rome, forms much basis for mathematical science in modern 
times. Euclid, the father of geometry, and Pythagoras, who is credited 
with raising mathematics to a science, presented tenets and observations 
which have never been refuted down through centuries cf research and 
observation. Modern physics continues to view the principles of 
Democritus as basic. As Tyndall quotes them, they are the foundation 
cf modern scientific thought. One principle is that "nothing happens by 
chance. Every occurrence has its cause from which it follows by neces- 
sity. " 
Kepler's doctrine cf the concurrence cf parallels at a single point at 
infinity, and his principle cf continuity in relation to the infinitely great, 
relates to all geometrical figures. This thesis, as applied to natural law, 
was amplified by Descartes and Newton. There is no reason why charts 
cf market statistics, if drawn according to geometrical design, cannot 
be another application cf these premises. 
A Pythagorean proposition is that all things consist cf three—the 
trinity cf proportions, or the arithmetical, geometrical and the harmoni- 
cal. In market terms this is a clue to the relationship which exists be- 
tween the angle cf lift in charted prices; the prices, and the extent, or 
time cf market activity in days, weeks, months, etc. 
Pythagoras taught further that there is a numerical relation in all 
phenomena; the harmonic intervals cf numbers with sounds; the rela- 
tionship that the square cf the hypotenuse, in a right handed triangle, 
is equal to the sum cf the squares on the other two sides; and more im- 
portant, that angles cf a sphere have specifically corresponding numbers, 
which are sensitive to those angles in space, infinity and time. The lift 
of charted prices does coincide with numbers at specific points in space, 
corresponding to price and time. In these observations is the entire basis 
of geometrical charts.

--- PAGE 105 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWO 
FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING 
Most cf the various methods cf charting market prices ignore the 
necessity for a constant balanced relationship between the elements cf 
time and price. Usually one unit cf graph paper represents one unit of 
time, such as a day or week, while two, five, or any convenient number 
of units is taken to represent one cent or one dollar. The observation 
seems to be that any unit relationship is satisfactory just as long as it is 
carried throughout the chart. This is not the case. 
In geometrical charting the primary rule is; that there must be an 
identical unit to represent both time and price. Ancient geometry was 
principally concerned with geocentric and astronomic observation. It 
discovered that all natural phenomena is, in some way, concerned with 
circles, or cycles; such as the diurnal movement cf the Earth on the axis, 
the 28 day cycle of the Moon around the Earth, and the cycles cf the 
planets around the Sun. The circle, or cycle, was the basis cf geometry; 
and, lines emanating from the axis of a circle, and the relationships cf 
these lines on the circumference of a circle, are the first tools cf geometry. 
They prove balance. 
The 360° of a complete circle contain several cardinal, and many 
lesser, points. The major cardinal points are those which mark the four 
major squares of every circle, and those which mark the three major 
triangles cf every circle. Fractional harmonics form the lesser. 
A perfect cross of two lines, drawn through the center of a circle indi- 
cates the four cardinal points on the circumference; and, coincides with 
90° 
ISO0   o° 
27O0

--- PAGE 106 of 143 ---

104 
MARKET CHARTS 
the four seasons cf the year. A cross divides a circle into four equal 
parts, each part 90° or one half cf 180" and a quarter cf 360". This 90° 
angle is the "square" unit, or the symbol cf the meeting cf force and re- 
sistance. T wo 90° angles are the equal cf 180°, or, the symbol cf op- 
position and alternative. The point cf 0° is always the beginning or 
place cf origin, and the positive pole, while 180° is the negative pole; one 
is Self and the other Not-Self, the start and the finish, the top and the 
bottom. All degrees which divide 90 equally are related to "resistance." 
There is another set cf major critical points within a circle; from the 
major triangles. Where the first division was one cf quarters or 90" 
angles, the second division is cf 120" angles or thirds. These two di- 
visions form the basis cf all angles and division, cf not only circles, but of 
120 
240° 
any unit, viz, %, Vsi ViQt etc are all harmonical divisions cf 90°, 
while %, %, %. etc, are the harmonical divisions cf 120". The 120° 
angles, and their harmonical divisions, relate to co-ordination, harmony 
and balance. They are not only unifying but bring adjustment which 
relates to the ideal. So in zodiacal sign relationships the major triangles, 
or trines, tie earth to earth, air to air, fire to fire and water to water. In 
market charts, these units mark areas cf market adjustment or areas and 
periods cf consolidation in time and price. 
The co-ordination cf nature with these basic angles shows up in a 
variety cf ways. Under microscopic examination molecules cf copper, 
iron and quartz follow the major angles. Snowflakes,in myriads cf major 
angle forms, illustrate the major angles. One twelfth cf a year is one 
month; one twenty fourth cf a day is one hour; one hour-sixty minutes; 
all are divisions cf the trine, or 120" angle. Similar connection with the 
square or 90° angle can be noted. As Laotze said, everything exists for a

--- PAGE 107 of 143 ---

FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING 
105 
purpose, and the virtue cf everything is in its use; which can include 
geometry and market charts. 
The sketch below illustrates the necessity for a market chart unit 
cf time--days, months, etc—always being equal to the unit cf price— 
one dollar or one cent. There is balance when A-B is equal to C-D. F 
A-B is one unit cf price then G D must be one unit of time. There is an 
immediate unbalance if A-B is one unit and C-D is three, or five, or ten 
units of measure. Most important rule cf geometrical charting — that the 
arithmetical unit cf measuring time and price shall always be identical. 
Lack cf space makes it impossible to offer illustrations why it is also 
necessary to show every unit of calendar time on all charts, instead cf 
following the popular practice cf simply indicating market days. Usually 
chartists provide no space for Sundays and those intervals when the 
markets are closed. Yet the student cf economic cycles realizes that Sun- 
days and holidays may halt the completion cf such economic transac- 
tions as market turnover, but they do not halt a cycle of time. The forces 
which result in market statistics are operative 7 days a week and 24 
hours a day. Forces behind the movement cf money are not halted be- 
cause most of the banks cf the country are closed a large part of each 
24 hours. So it is with market forces, they operate constantly. So charts 
must show calendar time, not market time. 
In preparing charts it does not matter what unit cf measure may be 
selected, just as long as it is followed throughout the chart. Use any type 
cf paper from the 20 by 20 squares to the inch to the 1 by 1 square to the 
inch. The only point is to maintain a balance cf units. 
For general purposes the readily available graph paper cf 8 by 8 
squares to the inch is convenient to handle for grain futures, stocks and

--- PAGE 108 of 143 ---

105 
MARKET CHARTS 
Averages. In grain charts use one unit to indicate one cent, and one 
equal unit to indicate time—which will be a day, a week, month, or year, 
depending on the type of chart. On the 8 by 8 paper Va inch will present 
one cent on the vertical scale, and Vs inch will mark a unit cf time cf the 
horizontal scale. 
In security price charts Va inch should represent one dollar on the 
vertical scale, and Vs inch represent one unit cf time on the horizontal 
scale. 
It is profitable to carry charts on the daily, weekly, monthly 85 yearly 
range cf prices cf every stock or grain option in which there is any in- 
terest. For most purposes, however, the charts can be limited to one 
daily and one weekly. Do not load up with a great number cf charts. 
One hour cf interpretation is better than ten hours cf marking up high, 
low and close statistics. Enter the calendar days—or weeks—across the 
top from left to right, and the price range in the left hand margin from 
bottom to top. Begin all charts from the last major high or low. A space 
to provide for volume should be provided along the bottom cf each chart.

--- PAGE 109 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
After a set of daily and weekly charts has been laid out, with a range 
started from either the last major high or major low, the next step is to 
enter the major angles. We want to estimate all the probable elements 
of the present and future price range, resistances, and price and time ob- 
jectives. For illustrative purposes let us begin at the last major low. This 
low is, geometrically, the axis or center cf a circle. However, price ac- 
tivity on a chart moves upward and to the right cf the axis, so we can 
only use 90° or one quarter cf the circle, illustrated in the sketch below. 
From point A a line is drawn to equal and parallel F-B, and then the 
angle AEB is entered so as to duplicate AFB, and form the base figure 
for our chart form. The extension on CD is the result. Literally, C is the 
same as F—the axis cf the circle and the point cf the major chart low 
(when inverted, it is the major high). 
According to the Pythagorean observation the degree units (angles) 
cf a circle have numerical co-ordinates which are harmonical. In this 
instance the 90° from A to B represents 90 units cf measure from A to 
F, F to B, B to E, etc. And it follows that the extended square on base 
line C-D must also be measured by 90 units on each cf its sides. This 
square of 90 is our base unit in all market charts, except with minor ex- 
ceptions in the daily. 
On the opposite page are two sketches which illustrate the important 
angles cf a circle and also the 90° segment. One indicates the manner in

--- PAGE 110 of 143 ---

108 
MARKET CHARTS 
which the harmonics cf 90° form four perfect squares in every circle. 
The other illustrates how four triangles form on the major harmonics of 
120°. From the axis these points form angles cf 90, 45, 22 Va, HVi, 671/2, 
etc in the squares, and 75, 60, 30, 15, 45, 90, etc in the trines. Note that 
90 and 45 appear in both groups, indicating they are doubly strong. 
Keep the entire gamut of these critical degree points of all the groups 
in mind, not only when computing time by days, or weeks, but in com- 
puting price and resistance. Think in numbers, rather than angles. 
The points which are harmonical with the square of 90 signal re- 
sistance, and points cf trend reversal, as their connecting lines extend to 
112/,° 
6T/,o 
157/, 
ISO1 
202'/, 
135° 
22/, 
315 
225 
337/,° 
247/,° 
292/,° 
270° 
axial highs or lows. In time measure all harmonical points cf 90, or from 
0 to 360, represent days, weeks or months cf resistance, from a major 
high or low. This coincides with the 88, 44 and 22 day cycles cf Mercury, 
viz, 90, 45 and 22 Vz, etc. 
In other words, in measuring time count from a major hi or low in 
calendar days, weeks or months for critical areas in time. 
The points harmonical with the trines also mark important areas in 
time and price, but the levels they indicate are related to that type of 
market action that accompanies periods cf adjustment or consolidation. 
The critical points cf the two groups--square and trine--operate from 
0, and also from any beginning, viz, a major low at 11 would locate the 
45 point at 56 (11 plus 45) and not 45. 
The trine points tie up in the approximate 365 day cycle of the Sun 
which marks 1 year. 
The application of these critical points is now used in entering the

--- PAGE 111 of 143 ---

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
109 
lines from axial tops and bottoms in the square cf 90. (See Plate 1 on 
the opposite page). The sensitive degree points are tabulated on the 
top and side margin of the graph. The lines from point X, the axial 
center, and also our theoretical low point, form angles which are not 
measured on the circumference 0—0, but on the sides 0-90, and 90-0. 
This is our foundation, a complete unit which is to be applied to every 
low, and inverted, to every high on our charts. 
The strongest angle is 90°, coinciding with the vertical line cf X to the 
top 0. The next strongest is the 45° angle, formed from the lower 0 to 
90, or the line of 90. Points E and E are also 45, and are points cf the 
ISO 
ISO' 
120° 
oO 
30 
330 
2IO 
240 
300 
270° 
square within the square. As all the lines from the axis X are followed 
note how cross lines coincide with critical degree points. X-D is the 30 
point line (measured across the top). On the circumference 0-0 is an 
angle of 7DA0. Note the minor resistance at 33% points, and the major 
resistance at 67%, on the graph. In time (from left to right) these points 
are 111/4 days or weeks, and 22 Vi, So it can be readily observed that the 
Pythagorean postulate proves out; that there is a harmonical relation- 
ship between angles and numbers, which, in terms of market charts, ties 
up the "lift" of the price structure with time and resistance. 
In order to avoid the inconvenient and cumbersome necessity cf enter- 
ing the full square of 90 at every important top and bottom that ma- 
terializes on our charts, a precision detail colluloid protractor is used and 
the critical points translated into angles by means of those tables which 
are entered at the bottom of Plate 1. Most drawing and draftsmen sup- 
ply dealers stock them.

--- PAGE 112 of 143 ---

110 
MARKET CHARTS 
30 40 SO 60 70 SO 90 
A 7 
BO 
/ 
60 
30 
lO 
X-A 5% spaces 
X-B 
X-C 22% 
X-D30 
X- E45 
X- F60 
X- G671/2 
861/4° 
X-A 5 % spaces 
821/2° 
X-BllVi " 
75" 
X-C221/2 " 
711/4° 
X-D30 
63%° 
X-E45 
561/4° 
X - F60 
541/2° 
X-G 67% " 
Right Margin Upward 
3%° 
71/2° 
15° 
183/4° 
261/4° 
33%° 
371/2° 
Another method, which is even simpler after a little practice, is to use 
the scale cf measurement below. Count from the axis X upward, or to 
the right, as the case may be. 
Vertical Scale (Right Margin) 
5% spaces —16 over 1 up 
Horizontal Scale (Top Margin) 
111/4 
' —16 
2 
15 
1 —12 
2 
221/2 
' —16 
4 
30 
' —12 
4 
45 
' — 8 
4 
60 
' —12 
8 
671/2 
' —16 
1 2 
5% spaces — lover 16 
111/4 " 
— 2 
16 
15 
— 2 
12 
221/2 " 
— 4 
16 
30 
— 4 
12 
45 
— 4 
8 
60 
— 8 
12 
671/2 " 
—12 ' 
16

--- PAGE 113 of 143 ---

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
111 
IO 20 30 40 SO 6O 70 8O 
vO 
PLATE 3 
85 
U.S. STEEL WEEKLY 
JULY 1932 to MARCH 1934 
SO 
75 
70 
65 
eo 
IO 
55 
50 
5—7 2 45 
40 
35 
30 
it 
25 
20 
w 
10 
A - July '32 low 4 - Horizontal from low C 
B-Sept'32 high 5-Horizontal fromhighD 
C-Feb'33 1ow 6 —71%°30spaces (7) 
D-July'33 high 7-90"onC 
E-Oct '33 low 8-45° on A 
1 - Axis '32 low 9 - 45 ° on C 
2 - 71 Vi0 30 spaces 10 - 183/40 30 spaces (B) 
3 -Horizontal from top B 11 - 183/40 30 spaces (C) 
12 - 633/40 - 45 spaces (C) 
We can now enter the important lines on the weekly charts. For il- 
lustration note the weekly range chart cf U. S. Steel Common on the 
opposite page (Plate 3). The first procedure was to align the axis, cf the 
square of 90, to the low point of July 1932 at A As soon as this is done 
the price is tabulated in the left hand margin, and the major lines of 90, 
or 45" angles, are entered at 0, through the exact center at 1, and from 
A to 90. Then the top and side points cf 30 and 45 are entered. For 
simplification all but the top 30 is deleted on this Plate 3. These lines 
illustrated that the major resistances in price were, on the upside, where 
the major lines cross at 1, or $64 in price and 45 weeks in time, and, on 
line 2 at 51 T/i (the top scale of 30 points added to the low cf 21 Vi at A).

--- PAGE 114 of 143 ---

112 
MARKET CHARTS 
As the weekly range cf prices rose along this line no other lines were 
necessary until the September 1932 top at B. 
As soon as the top was made the horizontal top line at 3 is entered. 
Then the line 10 through B and 1 was drawn. Then a line parallel to 2 is 
entered through 1, and the 45° angle down from B. Just as long as a 
weekly or monthly range stays above the line cf 90 it is bullish; and, 
conversely, as long as the range travels under the line of downward 90 it 
is bearish. The line cf 90 from B was not penetrated until the point of 
convergence cf vertical 7 and parallel 6 was reached at C. At C then, a 
new base line 4 was drawn; line 11 is entered parallel to line 10;and, the 
line cf 90 at 9 entered. This signalled that the weekly range holding 
above line 11 was bullish 8s if it held above the 90 line 9 the objective 
was; first, the high 10 line, and, a price within "orb" cf point 1 or $64. 
The high materialized at the high line point D, just under $68, in July 
1933. Note; —line 12, drawn from C through D, strikes at 76 on the top 
margin and scale, 44 points added to the February 1933 low at point C 
are 67Vi and the July 1933 high on U.S. Steel. 
Study Plate 3 carefully; and, with the material already discussed, set 
up charts for ranges over the past. Facility in locating the manner in 
which resistance points and objectives can be computed, in advance, will 
soon develop. The more points cf crossing at one week, or at one price, 
the more important is that point. Always be generous with lines. Have 
more than you need, rather than too few. Always carry all the major 
lines from every important top and bottom. Begin with the line cf 90, 
or 45°, and when a line is entered above this major line always enter a 
line below, at the same degree point. 
A great number cf different combinations cf angles and lines can be 
applied to every chart. I" the fundamentals already discussed have been 
thoroughly grasped each combination can be worked out to a logical 
conclusion. 
Study the manner in which duplications recur on all charts, and how 
when one square cf 90 is completed the succeeding square will develop 
duplications, not in exact prices but in geometrical form and reflected by 
the price ranges. Note that parallelograms and forms cf squares and 
rectangles prove out, as complete moves cf prices occur. A major ob- 
jective can be anticipated by drawing lines from double and triple tops 
and bottoms. When making such extensions run the 90 point line up- 
ward from the first bottom, then the 45 top point line on the second bot- 
tom, and if there is a third bottom, enter the 22% point (top) from it. 
Where these lines converge will mark a major point cf resistance in time 
and price. Conversely, from tops, the lines go down. 
Keep in mind that the sensitive angles coincide with critical points cf 
prices. For instance, if a stock makes a major low cf ten dollars per share 
you can immediately outline its major and minor resistance points in 
days, weeks and months, and in price. Simply take the major degrees 
such as 15,30,45, 90,105,135, etc, and add to the major low; viz, 10 
plus 15 equals 25,45 and 10 equals 55, etc. Count the days and weeks 
in the same manner.

--- PAGE 115 of 143 ---

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
113 
In entering lines and angles on the charts always strive for geometrical 
balance. When the 90 point line is drawn from a low, balance it with a 
90 point line from a top and note where they cross. If a 90 point line, 
or any other, is drawn from a bottom, parallel it by the same point line 
UPWARD from the preceding top. The three sides cf a parallelogram— 
the two parallels for two sides and a line extending from the top to the 
bottom—give clues to when and where a move in prices will be com- 
pleted. In the same manner, watch for duplications in time and price in 
the ends cf the parallelogram. This "boxing" cf the price range is very 
effective to locate when a move is completed, and to aid in finding ob- 
jectives and price levels. They are most effective on the weekly charts, 
but should be looked for in the daily charts also. 
Above all, recognize the necessity for flexibility in entering lines. Al- 
ways be ready to apply variations cf the basic rules.

--- PAGE 116 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
THE DAILY CHART 
Where the weekly, monthly and yearly charts cf market prices—all 
set up according to the illustration used for the weekly chart cf U. S. 
Steel, in the preceding chapter — are the foundations for interpretation 
cf the major trends, probable tops and bottoms, plus points where turns 
are probable, the daily chart gives a closer and more enlarged view of the 
minor trend. In practice one is a supplement to the other; the weekly 
and monthly charts indicating the long trend perspective, and the daily 
charts the minor trends. 
Plate 2 shows the daily range cf the Dow Jones Industrials and the 
Dow Jones Rails from January 1st, 1933 to September 29th, 1933. A 
supplementary aid—a one point. Point and Figure chart cf the Indus- 
trials—is also included. 
Note that the rule cf one day for one dollar is followed. Also, every 
calendar day occupies one unit — Sundays, holidays and, periods of 
closed markets, are all shown. The square cf 90 and the line cf 90 are 
not used, except in the minor trends. In the daily charts we confine our- 
selves to actual trend lines on the highs and lows. 
The tops A and B are the horizontal base lines. Until those lines were 
broken at C the market was not in a bullish trend; as, even though 
strong implications had developed on the weekly and monthly charts, 
the confirmation on the daily chart was not complete. Then when A and 
B were penetrated, base lines were entered across preceding lows shown 
at 1 and 2. Note how these bottom or low lines held through the re- 
peated attacks in prices at 3, 4, 5, and 6 on both Averages, indicating 
that the trend was fundamentally bullish up until the apex cf the major 
triangulation, D-E-3, was broken out cf at E. 
On the intermediate trend cf the Industrials, from C, through D, count 
the days in terms cf our observations cf critical points, viz, S3A, 7i/2i 
11Y4, 15, etc. As soon as the 90 point and day passed, resistance became 
increasingly heavy. On the major point cf 105, or day, an important high 
was made. Then go back and count the days from the time the resistance 
across A and B was broken at C, and apply the same critical points. The 
top in prices occurred on the 90th day following the breakout at C. 
Apply this principle throughout all types cf charts. 
Always keep the geometrical fundamental cf balance, plus the har- 
monical relationship between degrees, points, days, months, and weeks, 
in the forefront cf attention. At the same time be prepared to allow an 
"orb" cf "aspect." That is, allow for discrepancies in all computations up 
to about 2%%. An objective cf 90 days or 90 dollars can carry a range 
cf points 2 Vi % higher or 2 Vi % lower. 2 Vi % of 90 is 21/4, so the range 
would be from 87% days, weeks, points or dollars, to 92 Vi days, weeks, 
points or dollars. Apply this general percentage "orb" to all computed 
objectives and resistance points.

--- PAGE 117 of 143 ---

CO 
CO 
O 
CL 
o 
<N 
Q. 
2 uj 
CO 
1=1 Z 
< 
0 
J 
jC~- 
:k I 
CO 
o

--- PAGE 118 of 143 ---

116 
MARKET CHARTS 
In the penetration cf trend lines or previous highs and previous lows 
on the daily charts, the percentage rule can generally be ignored for the 
"one point" rule. This rule applies to all chart points not computed on 
the degree points cf the major angles, such as trend line points, highs and 
lows, the applications cf the Dow Theory, and in interpretation by the 
Point and Figure method. The rule is, allow a one full point penetra- 
tion before accepting the implication as definite. 
The volume cf transactions is important. It should be charted on all 
stock charts and on the charts of the Averages, and if possible, on grain 
charts. In Plate 2 the volume cf transactions is entered on the bottom of 
the chart, with daily vertical lines indicating the number cf transactions 
in millions of shares. Follow through this chart cf the volume to see how 
the volume increased as the trend line on the lower side cf the channel 
was broken near D. As point 3 was approached, volume decreased; the 
pressure cf liquidation was passing, with prices preparing for a recovery. 
But as volume did not materially increase on the upside movement 
along the succeeding higher bottoms at 4, 5, and 6, the bullish trend was 
not convincing. 
Note that all minor tops and bottoms carry an upward or downward 
line of 90, or 45° angle line. As long as the minor trend holds above this 
line the minor trend continues unchanged. When this angle is broken a 
reversal or consolidation occurred. Use cf this angle on every daily chart 
is of tremendous value in short term trading operations. But remember, 
like the major trend lines across tops and bottoms, it only is effective on 
charts which follow the arithmetical balance cf one unit for time and one 
unit for price; and, that every calendar day is provided for and shown 
on the chart. 
As with the weekly charts, experiment and test charts cf past action 
with these methods.

--- PAGE 119 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FIVE 
SUPPLEMENTARY HELPS 
If every investor and trader will keep an up to date and carefully 
drawn set cf charts, for every grain option and stock in which he is in- 
terested, he will be amply repaid in greater profits, plus a new basis cf 
confidence. Such charts, used in conjunction with a subscription to a 
technical and advisory service, will enable him to not only maintain a 
market perspective, but help him to crystallize his observations into 
profitable action. The better a trader understands his reasons for making 
commitments, the greater are his chances to attain profitable results. 
As a minimum, use a weekly and a daily chart for every grain option, 
and stock, in which you are interested. Then, if possible, supplement the 
individual charts with charts cf the Rails and the Industrials in stocks; 
and in grains, carry a corn option if you are trading in wheat, or wheat if 
you are interested in corn. The Dow Theory where the primary and 
intermediate trends are involved, is very useful in not only stocks, but in 
grains. In stocks, use the daily Industrial Averages, and the daily Rail 
Averages as compiled by Dow, Jones and Company. In grain, use the 
option cf wheat to replace the Industrials, and the option cf corn to re- 
place the Rails. Always use options which run out in the same month— 
like September wheat and September corn. The Chicago Board cf Trade 
options work quite effectively in this form. 
The Dow Theory is a method cf market interpretation developed by 
the late Charles H. Dow cf the Wall Street Journal. It was later ampli- 
fied by William P. Hamilton. In recent years there has been a pro- 
nounced tendency to read certain implications into the theory which it 
was never designed to convey. Basically, the Dow Theory is a very use- 
ful method cf interpreting the intermediate and primary trends only. 
Its use in minor trends is cf little value. For everything that may be im- 
plied under the Dow Theory study the book by Robert Rhea, entitled 
'The Dow Theory." 
One cf the oldest professional forms cf charting market prices is the 
Point and Figure Method. It is an excellent supplement to the geo- 
metrical charts, when the chartist wants a separate check on the im- 
portant levels of accumulation and distribution, resistance points and the 
main trend. The method pays no attention to calendar or market time; 
it is not concerned with the volume cf transactions. Its entire purpose is 
to follow the price movement. The upper left hand portion cf the chart 
comprising Plate 2 illustrates a one point chart which was compiled by 
the Point and Figure Method. It will be noted that units cf price less 
than one, such as the fractions cf Vs and T4, are ignored. In compiling 
these charts the general rule is that full point changes are entered on the 
chart by x marks. Starting on a day a stock moves between 1 IVi and 
12%, the figure to be entered is an x at 12—the only full figure in that 
range. Then, if the stock advanced through 13, into 14, an x is entered

--- PAGE 120 of 143 ---

118 
MARKET CHARTS 
in the space above the x at 12. If, however, the stock price churns be- 
tween 12 Vz and 13%, and then breaks through the full figure 13, move 
to the next vertical column cf squares to the right and enter x at 13. The 
data for these changes may be taken from quotations in newspaper fi- 
nancial pages, or from the daily range charts; but the only satisfactory 
source, so as to follow all fluctuations, is to take the data directly from 
the tape. 
Refinements cf this method are used in a great many ways. There are 
one point charts, half point, quarter point, three point and the five point. 
All forms have their own particular use and contribute to market in- 
terpretation as a whole, considerable data on this method is available. 
Various mathematical forms have been developed to produce auto- 
matic "buy" and "sell" signals. The most noteworthy cf these are labeled 
"running average" devices. These may consist cf two lines running on an 
arithmetical chart. As long as the same trend continues these lines hold a 
parallel position to each other. At a major turning point the one line 
will cross the other. A popular method cf computing such a pair cf lines 
is to use the daily close for one line and the average cf the closes cf the 
preceding week for the other line. Sometimes the average cf the pre- 
ceding highs, or lows, are run on one cf the lines, or a third, and some- 
times even a fourth line is added, each line carrying various combina- 
tions cf figures. 
But, to supplement the geometrical method cf charting there is one 
basic method which overshadows all others in usefulness. It lies in a 
close study cf the tape itself. On the tape is recorded every transaction 
in the market, with every fluctuation in price, every item cf volume; or, 
in brief, a completely detailed moving picture cf each stock and the 
market as a whole. Watching every movement cf price and volume on 
the tape, without retaining the perspective cf trends revealed in the 
charts, is a danger few observers can guard against.

--- PAGE 121 of 143 ---

[OCR] Section IV

--- PAGE 122 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER 
The purpose is to try to define or at least make an estimate cf the 
probable future trend of speculative markets, notably stocks and com- 
modities. Is the major or long term trend upward or down? It was up- 
ward in stock market averages from 1932 to 1965, approximately 33 
years, but something else in terms cf individual stocks then and since. 
And this basic upward trend actually was a series cf intermediate up- 
ward and intermediate trends constantly making marks on affairs. For 
example, from 1932 to 1937 was an intermediate upward trend; from 
1937 to 1942 was an intermediate downward trend. And within all in- 
termediate trends, whether upward or down, are constant minor trends. 
One cf the initial steps in developing estimates cf trend prospects is to 
define precisely what these trends may be. 
It is amazing the ignorance which prevails on these elementary fac- 
tors. Most brokerage salesmen, and there are exceptions, seem bred to 
markets pointing upward in their incessant search for orders to buy 
something. Declines are admitted but always as temporary setbacks. 
In turn, most cf their customers think always somewhere the trend will 
be upward. An old wheeze is that security prices always eventually go 
higher and compare the Dow-Jones Averages cf 1897 with those of 
recent years. One quick answer is that Pennsylvania Railroad in the 
days cf World War I was the final word as a deluxe, income paying blue 
chip cf blue chips. To soften what may seem to be a put-down note that 
Haloid, the poor and struggling cousin cf Rochester photo industry 
moguls for many years now has grown to some stature as Xerox. The 
trend must be defined by the position cf the Averages and the issues 
being scrutinzed as possible candidates for purchase or sale. 
An intermediate trend usually has five phases, three in its direction 
and two corrective minor trends. Thus, the intermediate upward trend 
usually has a relatively small initial upward phase such as July to Sep- 
tember 1932 on the Industrials, a minor downtrend cf varying length 
such as September 1932 to February 1933. The second upswing minor 
trend follows as from March to July 1933. The second setback carried 
to near the end cf 1934 from which the third upswing and blow-off phase 
made a peak in early 1937. It is almost axiomatic that the third phase cf 
an intermediate uptrend is the largest and longest because by that time 
people feel the future profit prospects are both unlimited and assured. 
As one technician often said when people demand stocks in a third up- 
ward phase he always was happy to please them and sell out all the 
stocks he owned. 
The years 1973 and 1974 marked the most devastating market losses 
than any two year interval since the early 1930's. Vicious declines oc- 
curred in 1966 and 1969 in terms cf the popular Averages but com- 
parable rebounds followed rather quickly to restore preceding values

--- PAGE 123 of 143 ---

122 
SECTION IV 
and the Over-The-Counter market did not collapse. In our annual trend 
projection estimates issued and copyright in December annually for the 
forthcoming year cyclic estimates again proved themselves. For ex- 
ample, 1974, at the end of 1973, was a chaotic prospect after February 
was out of the way, as Jupiter would begin to move toward a square of 
Saturn. And in April the weak trine cf retrograde Uranus to Saturn 
would begin to shift to a square. These are bearish elements intensified 
by the Node moving through Sagittarius all year, the opposition area to 
our Gemini critical point. Forecast projection; firming early in the year, 
late May peak, September low. 
One cf our market turning points, in the relation cf Jupiter and Saturn 
at 126°, converged in early February in a weak manner, because Saturn 
was retrograde at the time; again in late September when Saturn was 
direct but Jupiter was retrograde; and again in December. At the latter, 
Jupiter was direct but Saturn again was retrograde. However, very sig- 
nificant factors were included in the December data; Uranus had moved 
into Scorpio and was working toward a trine with Saturn, Jupiter was 
nearing a trine to Saturn which also would be a trine to Uranus; and, the 
opposition cf the Node to 8° Gemini culminated late in the month. With 
the stock market at the lowest point since the panic cf 1962, and within 
shouting distance cf the highs cf 1956, it was the framework cf a classic 
low. 
The 1974 market trends confirmed the 1932-1965 upward major 
trend had reversed to a major downward trend in its first decline made 
in 1966. However, an intermediate upward trend correction should fol- 
low, and be cf considerable magnitude in prices and quite lengthy in 
time. 
In the projected trend estimates for 1975, issued and copyright in De- 
cember 1974, a peak was anticipated May 29th when a strong square of 
Jupiter and Saturn occurred, and repeated in late June and again in 
mid-July. By December, and Jupiter turning direct the 11th, the up- 
swing was projected to resume. 
Recall in the foregoing that the September through December 1974 
cyclic data was turning into bullish. Meantime the technical structure 
of the stock market had developed that the primary or major trend, in 
terms of the Averages, was down. The widely acclaimed 1973 high on 
the Industrials, which never had been confirmed by the Transport 
Average, had been a false move which had collapsed into the panic con- 
dition cf 1973 and 1974. What caused the panic? Of course there are a 
multitude of reasons and explanations are comfortable. 
But We Are Going to Ignore Everything But Astro-Cycle Timing 
and then look for confirmatory action in the trend and market ampli- 
tude. 
So charts cf market statistics are the next step in putting it together. 
D' the section on setting up the geometrical chart form needed has been 
quickly read and not carefully studied step by step retracement may be 
irksome at the moment. Here is a simplified explanation. That it may

--- PAGE 124 of 143 ---

FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER 
123 
seem repetitious may clarify some factors which may have been hazy. 
The application is for the more prevalent daily chart cf price ranges, to 
aid in grasping the method. 
The elements which mark the transaction cf any exchange, in indi- 
vidual stocks and in any commodity, are the end result cf an auction re- 
sulting from many sources. The elements which motivate these sources 
are operating twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, although 
the auction market may operate for only a few hours a day in a five day 
week. In order to visualize some cf the actual phenomena cf market 
trends and the waves of activity a daily chart must show every calendar 
day. Where Saturday, Sundays and holidays occur blank spaces show in 
the chart. 
The second fundamental is to recognize the immutable law that a 
visual record cf price trends accepts the premise that time and space, 
or amplitude and distance, must be equal. Thus, if one space represent- 
ing one calendar day in the horizontal plane is one-eighth inch, then one- 
eighth inch is mandatory in the vertical plane to represent one unit cf 
price. The unit prices most commonly accepted are one dollar for one 
point in a stock, one cent as one point in grain, etc. 
The two initial fundamental premises are; on daily price range charts 
all calendar days must be shown, and the width cf the space comprising 
a calendar day is exactly the same as the height cf the space representing 
the unit price.

--- PAGE 125 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWO 
TIMING ELEMENTS 
As a market tool, charts afford an interpretive insight which is culti- 
vated by experience. In themselves charts do not forecast but market 
action revealed by charts presents means cf interpretation to the ob- 
server from Which tentative projections may be formulated. 
Means cf estimating the duration in time and the objective in price of 
a market trend, whether upward or downward, is the goal cf market 
analysis. The multitude cf factors involved have so few absolutes on 
which to base judgment the process is more an interpretive art than a 
science. However, if market charting is adapted to those mathematical 
laws cf trigonometric relations which apply to all problems of time and 
space many factors cf science may be applied, and interpretation forti- 
fied. 
Trigonometry involves angles. An angle is generated by two lines, one 
stationary and the other rotating. In market charts the stationary line 
becomes a major high, or conversely a major low. Angles are measured 
in radians or in degrees. A circle divides into 360 degrees; when it is 
divided by two lines at right angles through the center the angle at the 
center is 90 degrees. The circle then has four quadrants cf 90 degrees 
each. Note that the angle defines the number cf degrees. F a radius of a 
circle is bent on the circumference cf the same circle the subsequent arc 
marks an angle termed a radian. A radian is 57" 17' 45" or 57.2958"; pi 
is 3.14159, so pi radians is 180°; pi/2 radians is 90°; pi/3 radians 60° 
The harmonic divisions of 90° are V2 or 45°, Vi or 22l/20 and Vs HVi0. 
The harmonic divisions of 60° are Vz or 30°; V* or 15° and Va 7 V2 T In 
our market charting we view these degrees as angles cf the amplitude of 
trends cf prices and the distance velocity in time and price. Thus there is 
the velocity cf either an advance or decline in prices defined in degrees, 
and in addition there is a harmonic relation in the angle cf velocity to the 
waves cf prices. A rise which adheres to a trend channel cf approxi- 
mately 15° degrees reveals price resistances at 15, TVz, 3%. To il- 
lustrate: a stock in a 15" uptrend has an upside breakout at 35, ma- 
jor resistance will be at 35 plus 15 and lesser resistance at 35 plus 
3% and 35 plus IVz, as long as the 15" uptrend channel remains in- 
tact. Another stock is priced at 20 where a series of minor highs have 
occurred and it leaps out cf this established resistance at an apparent 
45° uptrend angle. Probable resistance to the new advance will appear 
at 20 plus 45, 221/2, 11 Vr and SVg. This works out as 20 plus 5% or 
25%, 20 plus 1 l%or 31%, etc. 
The velocity cf prices changes forms one insight to the power cf the 
momentum which eventuates probable exhaustion. A directed magni- 
tude cf this velocity then can be estimated by vectors. A major vector 
has within it a series cf smaller vectors which often differ in magnitude 
and direction. And a charted market trend cf daily prices has a major or

--- PAGE 126 of 143 ---

TIMING ELEMENTS 
125 
general trend within which are a number cf minor trends cf varying 
magnitude and duration. In charting the applications to use are polar 
coordinates where a vector is defined by a magnitude and an angle, or 
vectorial angle. In this usage the 90° harmonics apply to the angle of 
the price trend with its time factor cf days to reach exhaustion, and 60° 
harmonics apply to price resistance. 
Tentative market price objectives which form subsequent resistance 
areas often are revealed in advance by imposing triangles cf varying 
vectorial values. An example is to project one angle on the low close day 
in prices and a lesser angle on the first preceding low close day; the 
crossing will estimate exhaustion in time and price. To illustrate—the 
Dow Jones Industrials have an average velocity cf 45" or one-half cf 
pi/2 radians. The associated price resistance factor then is 60°. 
Below are tracings of a daily chart of the Dow Jones Industrials from 
March through June 1960. In Chart A the day cf the highest close is at 
(B); the highest preceding close day is at (A). As soon as the setback 
from (B) brought a close below the previous low close day (X) a 
tentative projection was entered. A 45° angle was entered at (A) and 
a 60° angle projected from (B). The convergence at (C) indicated a 
potential base between 600 and 605 the first week in May. 
625 
660 
62C) 
d 5 
650 
610 
640 
615 
600 
24 1 
May I960

--- PAGE 127 of 143 ---

126 
SECTION IV 
Price Chart B duplicates Chart A until after mid-April. When the 
early May projection was confirmed, when the close (E) was above the 
preceding high close (D) the low close day at (BB) was imposed with 
an upward 60° angle and at the preceding low close day (AA) a 45" 
angle was entered. This presented a tentative possibility cf the Indus- 
trials achieving the 660 level in early June. Note also the arithmetical 
resistance approximations; for example, from (BB) the first surge was 
598 plus 15, the second surge 598 plus 30; the eventual top approxi- 
mately 598 plus 60. 
In practice the precision cf the foregoing is often upset by unusual 
surges cf mass psychology. As a defense several measures are constantly 
used to fortify judgment and guard against changes in the apparent 
normal cf market action. 
Refer briefly to the circle in quarters with its quarter square on page 
and then the subsequent page depicting the full 90° square with the 
more critical angles. The daily application has been outlined leading up 
to the significant applications. 
Often there is a search for repeating cycles by statistics and then 
there is the constant reference to the economic cycle. The former is the 
often heard 9 year cycle, the 11 year cycle, the 18 year cycle or the 54 
year cycle. Recently the unprecedent extreme low cf 1976 in Sun-Spot 
activity, and its wide range of effects related to weather, harvests and 
humans, has relegated its average 11 years cycle to prospects cf a major 
cycle cf 80 to 90 years. It has been a wide search for statistical cycles 
with indifferent success. 
The latter or what is labeled the economic cycle avoids being trapped 
by a time factor. Conveniently it is often a theory. A prospective de- 
mand such as housing is pump-primed with capital and credit. Contracts 
are let and in a certain period cf interval business supplying materials 
expand as producers convert raw materials. So it goes, one factor sprout- 
ing another, until the "cycle" runs its course; it might be a brief year or 
two, or it might run for many years. Its greatest problem is a trail cf bad 
judgment. Statistical cycles constantly skate the surface trying to av- 
erage a factor from past statistical ebb and flow. Astro-cycles have been 
carefully rejected as faulty to start with, or in more recent years since 
the puritan mystique has lost its thought-control powers, most research 
has been confined to five or ten years cf research effort, and then rushing 
into print. The factors become overwhelming by their large number in- 
stead cf being sifted down to potent and workable simplicity. Certainly 
it has faults cf omission. 
Someone claims astro-cycles all converge to the same position once 
briefly only every 26,000 years. It may be true but the point is no two 
cycles are exactly alike. Jupiter has its 12 year cycle but in the 12 years 
its apparent retrograde and forward paths aspect other astro-cycles with- 
out simple statistical repetition. And markets reflect timing factors 
which are not precisely symmetrical as mathematical cycles, a statement 
which seems elementary but is noted here because a degree cf elasticity

--- PAGE 128 of 143 ---

TIMING ELEMENTS 
127 
has to be accepted. A market may be projected to top out at noon Mon- 
day and doesn't; it tops out late Tuesday, etc. 
The Earth takes 365 days to go around the Sun, and the Moon makes 
JULY JAN. JUNE 
1974 OCT. 1975 APR. JULY. OCT. 1976 APR JULY 
DOW-JONES TRANSPORT AVERAGE 
WEEKLY PRICE RANGES 
JULY 1974-SEPT. 1976 
(6) 
V 
(7) 
r 
(8) 
13 revolutions around the Earth in 364 days, or 7 revolutions in 9 1 days. 
A satisfactory graphic presentation is to use the 360° circle, divide it in 
four 90° parts, and keep repeating the 90" square at highs and lows. Re- 
lated is the phenomenon cf markets staging price surges cf 11 calendar 
days (9 market days) which relates to the 88 day cycle cf Mercury in- 
terlaced with the 365" and 28° and 91" factors. 
The most comprehensive and valuable charts are those cf the weekly 
ranges. Useful are monthly range charts. The tendency is to get trapped 
with so many daily range charts interpretation gets lost. Application

--- PAGE 129 of 143 ---

128 
SECTION IV 
cf the weekly range chart exhibits many useful elements. In the fore- 
going, 1974 cyclic data noted a rebound and substantial upswing in the 
stock market was in the prospect. A possible September low was the 
alert with late December the probable kick-off into the upside. This 
portended a base in October to December inclusive. The Dow-Jones 
Transport Average chart is used for clarity and space limitations.

--- PAGE 130 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
CHARTING THE PRICE 
RANGE DATA 
This chart is the weekly ranges cf the Dow-Jones Transport Average 
from July 1974 to August 1975 inclusive. As discussed, the September 
low was anticipated late in 1973. When the October rally and subse- 
quent minor setback stabilized at higher levels than the September low, 
confirmation cf the September low was implied. The two parallel 30° 
lines (line A & line B) were entered, from the October low close week 
and the July high close. Added was the dashed line exactly between 
the two which was to represent market vitality, viz, ranges below the 
dashed line would be weak, on the line normal strong, above the line 
excessive strength inviting distribution. 
Next step was to enter the initial 45°—60° bisecting projections (in 
very volatile moves resort has to be made to try a 60°—75° combina- 
tion). Point (1), for the 60° line, was at the bottom cf the LOW CLOSE 
week cf the setback in early December. Point (2) 45° from the Novem- 
ber low close week. The convergence (3) was in the center cf the tenta- 
tive range of closes at 166 the first week cf April. When the April 
tentative objective was approached the market was very strong (above 
the midline slightly) but nevertheless reacted as due, up about 30 points 
on the move from point (1). (Recall that 30 points or degrees are a 
critical zone). 
The reaction was quickly absorbed and the low close week range had 
a tentative (dashed) line (4) entered which converged in May at a 172 
close. This was the zone cf the cycle high cf the year prospect we 
already discussed. Also the 172 prospect was precisely 45 points above 
the October extreme low close week cf 1974. It was time to move out. 
On the move the actual high close cf the year was made on the weekly 
ranges the second week cf July after seven weeks cf lower prices and 
swinging congestion. 
Confirmatory weakness in late July invited placement cf downward 
angle lines (5) and (6) which converged at (7) approximately on 
closes 22 points down or half cf the critical 45 points resistance, imply- 
ing a strong market and higher levels. However, the major underside 
upward 30° line from the October low close week was under test for six 
weeks but without a close making a penetration cf it. Conclusion: take 
out any short positions but defer buying pending more well defined 
market prospects. 
At this juncture an upward 60° line was placed at the bottom cf the 
low close week (8) (at 150—151) and a 45° line at the bottom cf the 
low close week PRECEDING the high of late July, which converged 
at 204-205 in April 1976. As it was close to the major 60° resistance, 
and the price ranges substantially above the median line, headlong buy-

--- PAGE 131 of 143 ---

130 
SECTION IV 
ing demand was coming in. Prices could attack the upper side cf the 
channel, marked by (B), but the third upward phase was in full bloom 
and the upward intermediate trend was blowing off. It was time to be 
a nice fellow and feed out the stocks they were bidding up in the fever 
to buy. 
This same step by step procedure, if followed exactly as detailed, can 
be applied to any stock or commodity which is active and has participa- 
tion. 
Spend no time experimenting with different scales cf measure and 
papers. The 5 spaces to a centimeter, with each centimeter accented, is 
available at almost all stationery stores. Cheaper grades, but the same 
precise measure, are in every super-market and variety stores in SVs/'x 
11" that carry school supplies. Sheets can be glued together as needed. 
The uniformity afforded gives facility with projections and the rela- 
tively small size is easy in picking out prospective moves. Plastic pro- 
tractors (180°) cf the 6" variety are a must. The 15, 40, 45, 60, 75 and 
90 degree lines can be scratched and inked on them. 
T o lay out paper and set it up to begin a chart sometimes is a road- 
block. The data is not available or takes too much time to search out. 
Sometimes the plea is that it means going through weeks cf back issues. 
BARRON'S is the most available source cf weekly price ranges and a 
subscription to build a file cf copies is a good investment. Most specula- 
tors with a background cf working at market action keep charts cf the 
daily price ranges cf several commodities and stocks. These charts can 
be readily used to run the WEEKLY ranges which comprise the secret 
cf this method. 
Without a variety cf personal daily charts and pending an accumula- 
tion cf price range data from BARRON'S or other sources, the follow- 
ing are useful. 
DAILY BASIS STOCK CHARTS, issued weekly 
TRENDLINE 1 month--4 issues $27.50 
345 Hudson Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
3-TREND SECURITY CHARTS Single copy $7.00 
(weekly ranges; do not confuse with Cycli-Graphs) 
Securities Research Company 
208 Newbury Street 
Boston, Mass. 02116 
The Trendline charts are daily ranges which must be translated to 
our weekly ranges and the week's close included. The Security Charts 
are weekly and cover about two preceding years. Unfortunately it is in 
a semi-log scale which is useless for our purpose. But weekly ranges may 
readily be placed on our chart form. Volume also is valuable and might 
be used also. On both cf the above a good magnifying glass, in order to 
get closes exactly, is needed. 
Our comments and illustrations have been confined to upward trends.

--- PAGE 132 of 143 ---

CHARTING THE PRICE RANGE DATA 
131 
Often more profitable in a shorter length cf time are short positions, or 
short against purchases which cannot be liquidated for one or several 
reasons. All techniques are cf course reversed. For example, the basic 
working unit cf the 90 square unit with its angles from an apex at the 
lower left hand corner is turned so the apex is at the UPPER left hand 
corner. This is obvious but years ago readers sometimes reported dif- 
ficulty in applying this device. 
A very few readers in the 1930's, when this work first appeared, 
critically rejected it. In several cases these critics were asked to send 
charts that the problem, if any, might be overcome. In every case they 
had intruded their own ideas or habits cf charting, usually by distorting 
the scale so that the price unit was not exactly equal to the time unit. 
Sometimes the weekly closes were carelessly entered or left out entirely. 
As a final comment this text requires step by step study. Casual 
readers will be unable to follow parts cf the text, and proceed to take a 
critical stance this is just another book. It is not, but some key factors 
are scattered through the text. Herein is the complete skeleton cf the 
results cf 54 years cf research and study which included 45 years as a 
professional analyst. Many long time clients have insisted for the past 
ten years that my personal methods cf interpretation should be recorded 
for others who are sincere students searching income and security in 
perhaps the most exploited money melange in our society — speculative 
markets.

--- PAGE 133 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS 
FOR A LOCALITY 
(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters) 
Locate from an atlas or other source the latitude and longitude of 
the location to be examined within a degree cf each. Refer to the World 
Map page to define the proper sign zone. For example, let us take Pitts- 
burgh, Penna. The approximate data shown in a Table cf Houses 
(Simplified Scientific T cf H by Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, 
Calif, covers 0° to 66° latitude.) is 40° N. Latitude, 80° W. Longitude. 
From 60° to 90° W. Longitude is the sign Capricorn. On the companion 
USA map 80° W, is in the Aries Dwadasamsas ruled by Mars Pluto 
(action, steel, iron, etc). The count cf West Longitude is counter- 
clockwise beginning at Greenwich 0°. But the count within Signs is 
clockwise. Thus 90" W. Longitude is 0° Capricorn with 80° W. Longi- 
tude 10° Capricorn. 
To be meticulous, which is superficial in this instance, we can intrude 
the Pyramid correction cf 1° 7%'. This means that 90° W. Longitude 
becomes a trifle less than 89° and Capricorn 10° then is slightly less 
than 9". Turning to the Table cf Houses under 40° Latitude and 9" 
Capricorn on the 10th house cusp we find 9° (page 214) and apply the 
data to a chart form. 
In Raphael's Ephemeris for 1977 we use January 23rd data as the 
beginning cf the biggest winter storm in many years. The data is for 
noon London but adjustments are not needed; it is entered in the proper 
houses. See chart. 
Ruler cf the 10th is Saturn in the 5th and retrograde in Leo. The 
tables cf planetary signs and houses makes this position an 8th house, 
with 10th house mixed tones, active in the 5th house. On January 23rd 
Saturn was sextile Pluto, square Uranus, trine Neptune, quincunx Mars, 
but exactly biquintile the MC with Mercury rapidly nearing a conjunc- 
tion with the MC. This is a more devastating major storm potential 
than in the famous and costly affair cf 1888, and similarly, the smaller 
storm of 1918; Saturn was in Leo also in both cf the latter. 
Putting together some cf the key words to the foregoing we have: 
In winter the long angle cf the Stm's rays on the Earth keeps the tem- 
perature of the Earth's atmosphere at low ebb. Leo is a Fire sign ruled 
by the Sun and Saturn in Leo makes the Earth colder than normal; in 
the 5th house depresses the welfare cf the area cf the sign it rules 
(Capricorn), generates hardship for women and children, reduces 
speculative activity and public confidence and can be very depressing 
to business and government. The key words cf each aspect and planet 
can exhibit the various problems and imply the final outcome, as

--- PAGE 134 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
133 
12 
9 
V5 
18 
z
1 
161 
op 
37' 
Pgh., Pa, 
1/23/77 
16 
14$ 9 137 
X 
18 
.a 
2 
changing aspects are followed in the ephemeris for subsequent weeks 
or months. 
In a locality chart the house each planet is in may be significant. And 
when a planet is in aspect to one or more other planets its potency is 
enhanced. So-called good and bad aspects are cf little significance. The 
square and the trines are significant but are cf differing values according 
to the natures cf the planets involved. An opposition cf Venus and 
Jupiter lacks the activation cf such an aspect as Mars to Saturn, for 
example. And the generally ignored biquintile group are the action 
triggering group, second only to the conjunctions to the 1st, 4th, 7th and 
10th house cusps, viz Asc., Nadir, Desc., and MC. 
In our example chart the forepart of 1977 presents a disturbing busi- 
ness, health and weather prospect for the Capricorn rulership area. The 
often mitigating influence of Jupiter is quite meagre in Taurus and 
lacking any close aspect of planet array. In early January Mercury was 
retrograde in Capricorn activating the aspect array centering on Saturn 
in Leo. Then Mars entered Capricorn, Mercury turned direct to cross 
the MC, with its 144° (biquintile) aspect to Saturn January 23rd and 
its converging sextile to Uranus on the 26th. Mercury Uranus aspects

--- PAGE 135 of 143 ---

134 
SECTION IV 
at sensitive chart points always indicate wind and when closely aspected 
are the key to tornado paths; Saturn indicated cold. 
The Mercury Mars in Capricorn combination continued active. 
February 2nd Mars at 24° and Mercury at 18° triggered the Saturn in 
Leo aspected array on the MC Leo locality zone in the section from 
about 140" East Longitude or about 20°. At about 40" North Latitude 
the Tables cf Houses gives us 20° Leo on the MC and 11° Scorpio on 
the Asc. Reported from Northern Japan were heavy losses and damage 
with about lOVi feet cf snow over a period cf 48 hours. Uranus was 
conjunct with Asc. ruling the 4th with property damage large and sud- 
den. Thus abnormal planetary arrays in Capricorn and centered in 
Western Pennsylvania late in January 1977 had varying effects in other 
areas. For example, Saturn in 14" retrograde in Leo approximates the 
MC cf the Japanese storm area. Another, with the same data; — Place 
Uranus 11° or 41° East Long. 10" No. Lat. Scorpio on the NADIR (4th 
cusp) cf the 11" MC; 2" Aquarius Asc. ruled by Uranus, with Mars the 
trigger. Ethiopian leadership assassinated in a major revolt. 
Sometimes indications are observed which seem to indicate an im- 
portant change in local weather and nothing occurs. The forces might 
be compared to a loaded gun which has all the elements to produce 
shooting a bullet. Nothing happens without trigger action. Note care- 
fully trigger aspects conjunct or close aspects from the quintile group to 
the angle house cusps, exact degree of the preceding lunation, and oc- 
casionally the parallel shift from North to South and South to North cf 
Mercury, Venus and Mars. 
T o aid initial facility in interpretation, experiment with these key 
words. 
Sign 
Nature 
1st Decan 
2nd Decan 
3rd Decan 
(T) ARIES 
stormy 
showers 
calm 
hot 
(8) TAURUS 
quiet 
quakes 
wet 
stormy 
(X) GEMINI 
nice 
rain 
temperate 
threatening 
(S) CANCER 
warm 
humid 
normal 
windy 
(.SI) LEO 
torrid 
humid 
quiet 
wet hot 
(HI) VIRGO 
moist 
hot 
humid 
rain 
(=0 LIBRA 
changeable 
nice 
temperate 
moist 
(1U) SCORPIO 
storms 
cold 
static 
turbulent 
(^) SAGITTARIUS 
windy 
humid 
placid 
stormy 
(V5) CAPRICORN 
wet 
dry 
temperate 
moist cold 
(zz) AQUARIUS 
moist 
damp 
changes 
stormy 
(X) PISCES 
wet windy 
nice 
wet 
turbulent 
The key-words helpful in identifying effects cf a planet on weather 
and seismic trends, perhaps over-simplified as strong aspects amplify 
or neutralize the simplified effects, are; 
( S ) Mercury — wind; (?) Venus—temperate & mild; ( S ) Mars 
— turbulence, heat; ( if) Jupiter — mild, warm, sultry; ( b ) Saturn 
--cold, precipitation; (&) Uranus — sudden changes; (tp) Nep- 
tune— strong winds often easterly; (B) Pluto — focuses, amplifies.

--- PAGE 136 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
135 
The aspects between planet positions and orbs cf effectiveness are 
significant. 
A general rule is an orb cf 5% each side cf center, viz, 90" 41/20, 
etc. The opposition (180°) is 9° each side cf center, and the con- 
junction is the same. All orbs in the Quintile series are limited 
to 2°. 
The activity cf aspects may appear confusing as the three classes ac- 
tively used overlap or are in the same degree (0). Interpretation ex- 
perience quickly develops the application in a specific situation. 
Harmonizing aspects (traditionally favorable) are; semi-sextile 
30°, sextile 60°, trine 120° and 180o-30o or 150° quincunx. 
Activating aspects (traditionally unfavorable) are; semi-square 
45°, square 90° and opposition 180°; conjunctions (0°) are of 
planet's natures. The 22 Va0 and the 180-45, which is 135°, often 
are useful. 
The triggering aspects (also marking reversals in some market 
trends) are the Quintiles related to one fifth cf the 360° circle, or 
72°. For example, the root is 9, twice 9 is 18, twice 36 is 72, 72 
plus 18 is 90, 72 plus 90 is 162, 162 plus 18 is 180 (except for the 
latter this series is useful in estimating peaks cf intensity between 
major planets in close aspect). The second series cf quintiles begins 
with; 18 plus 9 is 27, twice 27 is 54, 54 plus 72 is 126, 126 and 54 
are 180. (market trend low points often appear at these angles be- 
tween planets). And particularly in weather and seismic data 72 x 2 
is the 144° angle. 
Since the attempts to develop push-button thinking by computer have 
appeared, which may employ hoards cf people collecting statistics to 
feed the monsters, they may locate recurring cycles cf weather condi- 
tions, business trends, etc. Some cf the outcome have cost a mint cf 
money with the only practical result many people are employed at nice 
wages. Most cf the tentative cycle rhythms usually relate to the follow- 
ing planetary conjunctions cf geocentric computations. 
Saturn Uranus every 44 plus years, Jupiter Uranus every 13 plus 
years, Jupiter Saturn about 20 years, Jupiter Pluto 12 Vz years, 
Uranus Pluto 127, Saturn Pluto 33 Vz, Saturn Neptune 36, Jupiter 
Neptune 12 plus, Uranus Neptune 171, Pluto Neptune 492 years. 
In the late 1930's I had temporary access to detailed daily weather 
data for a mid-west area for much cf the period from 1910 to 1920. 
Before the time involved made it necessary to abandon the project to 
return to making a living a definite Jupiter (rain) and Saturn (cold) 
combination was fruitful. The base was the Rotational Jupiter-Saturn 
Conjunction chart cf 1921 (included in this work on another page). 
This figure was super-imposed on a MC locality figure and around the 
circle daily ephemeris transits were compared approximately 20 years

--- PAGE 137 of 143 ---

136 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
from the 1910—1920 specific daily weather figures. It was not possible 
to bring the research to compare other data time spans. 
Weather and seismic conditions have a marked effect on business, 
health, and all the factors which involve society. In examining clues to 
conditions and probable future trends we can outline months and years 
in advance by day to day computations from an ephemeris which covers 
the periods being examined. It is a mathematical exercise according to 
the framework of methods and procedures offered here. It is about as 
occult, crystal balling, or ESP concentration as driving an automobile 
on a freeway. 
Procedure to examine the business prospect cf a specific area follows 
much the same methods we have applied to weather estimates. Major 
difference is that house positions become more significant and the 
angles (1st, 4th, 7th, 10th) recede from dominance (see section on house 
rulerships). 
As an example we shall briefly review the late 1920's and early 1930's. 
During those years I was traveling extensively in the USA and Canada 
and was daily aware what went on in widely separated localities. 
Modern history is conveniently rewritten often to erase "non-essentials" 
and loses a lot cf truth in the process. Where did the Crash and Depres- 
sion get its start? It was a combination cf many things. After Europe in 
the 1920's, and the sad conditions cf Germany, Russia, etc., there was a 
huge effort by private capital to stabilize the situation. It tried but 
lacked the resources to generate capital, credit and money. The effort 
was made but it collapsed. 
Refer to an ephemeris (preferably Raphael's) for each year from 
1928 to 1933. Set a series cf locality charts cf the house positions only 
for a half dozen centers across the USA, such as New York, Detroit, 
Chicago, etc. For quick review note positions cf Jupiter, Saturn and 
Uranus only on these charts beginning in 1928. Saturn is in the MC 
area cf Sagittarius MC charts cf the West and is moving East. Late in 
1929 it is established in Capricorn moving to a square cf Uranus in 
Aries in a first house ruling the 12th. 
In 1930 Saturn clings to Capricorn in square to Uranus and Jupiter 
moves into Cancer squaring Uranus and opposing Saturn. Through 
1931 the situation hangs on until early in 1932 with Saturn moving 
East to Aquarius out cf Capricorn. In 1952 there was a somewhat re- 
lated situation cf square and opposition. But it occurred in entirely dif- 
ferent sectors than the 1930's in sign positions and locality houses. 
Saturn at MC is the clue to the depression cf the 1930's. 
Incidentally, if a person super-imposes a chart cf birth on a selected 
locality the effects cf that environment often will be indicated. T o 
illustrate locality factors refer to data on the mid-1930's for the upper 
mid-west. Saturn by forward and apparent retrograde was on the 
Ascendant opposing Neptune, Uranus afflicted also but in the second 
house, etc.; it was depression compounded by drought situations. Many 
ultimately profited immensely but the majority suffered, particularly 
those with their personal chart positions related to the Saturn in Pisces

--- PAGE 138 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
137 
locality chart. Some years ago a person who consistently experienced liv- 
ing and career problems in New York City, with an afflicted 4th house at 
the NYC MC in Capricorn, moved to Idaho where the Sagittarius MC 
was conjunct his Jupiter. In the subsequent several years he realized 
excellent business, health and social success. Of most value though is 
the means to adjust to the problems cf a locality through an insight into 
area syndromes, in relation to the aspirations cf the person exploring 
the situation. 
EARTHQUAKES 
A Long Range Forecasting Procedure 
The Earth is a pulsating mass with changing weather, constantly 
shifting ocean tides, plus thousands cf earthquakes every year. Most 
of the latter never are sensed but occasionally the exception occurs 
and generates devestation and loss cf human life. Recent estimates are 
that earthquake fatalities in 1976, from the Guatemala. China and 
Turkey epicenters, were the largestjhncejjie year 1566_AJ3. T o include 
theMarcn ttn, iy// major losses in Rumania intensifies the problem. 
Science explains the mechanics cf earthquakes is a movement cf the 
earth's crust which is from 2 to 30 miles deep. Under the crust is a hot 
liquid mantle about 1,800 miles deep and then into the center a hot 
metal inner and outer core about 2,200 miles thick. Forces below the 
crust may fracture and break the crust to form mountains, volcanic 
eruptions and earthquakes. In some instances the surface crust has been 
damaged and a break or fracture exists which marks weakness and 
repeated tremors occur; then quakes become a regular situation. 
The point under the earth's crust where the greatest pressure de- 
velops is the epicenter where the earthquake begins. However, greatest 
damage sometimes occurs many miles away by what are called seismic 
waves. A homely example is watching a pie baking in a hot oven with 
the top crust without any vent holes. After a time the pressure in the 
pie begins to mount, the crust bulges and subsequently the edges burst 
open or the thinest area cf the crust pops in a small explosion. On the 
earth's crust the increasing pressure causes the bending, dropping and 
sometimes breaking cf the surface, to generate the quake. 
Very little has been accomplished in the efforts to forecast the time 
and place cf earthquakes. In some areas earth tremors occur almost 
daily and are under constant study. The San Andreas fault in California 
extends about 650 miles along the Pacific Coast from north cf San 
Francisco south. In the sparsely populated mountain area cf southwest 
Oregon—northwest California in 1926—27 severe earth tremors aroused 
panic to find the cause. During the years to follow a forecasting formula 
was attempted. Like everything else it has limitations, but the way 
estimates weeks, months, and in several instances years in advance, 
have been confirmed in approximate time and place, is cf interest. Al- 
though asked for my method of interpretation I have avoided explana-

--- PAGE 139 of 143 ---

138 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
lions; these notes present the simple procedure, with the hope others 
will test the method. 
Usually most observers are interested in a specific area where the 
latitude and longitude are readily apparent. The forecaster wants to 
scrutinize where and when a quake may occur. The location is un- 
known. Here is a means cf overcoming the problem. 
Soon after mid-1976 Raphael's Ephemeris for 1977 was issued the 
initial result was to scan the cyclic prospects day by day. The first crisis 
area appeared on February 24th in which Uranus, Saturn and Mars 
were in the same degree but NOT the same signs. Uranus in Scorpio 
was square Saturn in Leo and retrograde; with Mars in Aquarius op- 
position Saturn and square Uranus. This is earthquake weather if a 
Where a quake generates major losses in human life and property 
the first house cf a locality chart usually is heavily involved. All the 
angles are significant in locality interpretation but where loss cf life and 
extensive property damage occur the ascendant (cusp cf the first house) 
are involved. Therefore in our initial example to locate the geographical 
place where quake action might occur both the MC (cusp of 10th 
house) for longitude and the Ascendant for latitude have to be searched 
out. 
Involved primarily are Uranus in 11" Scorpio, Saturn retrograde in 
11° Leo and Mars 11° Aquarius. If our interest is confined to one area, 
such as the United States, reference to the World Zone map 139 W. 
Longitude (11° Scorpio) is in Eastern Alaska, and the only MC loca- 
tion in North America, as the other signs are Leo and Aquarius. With 
11° Leo the position is 131 East Longitude suggesting Japan, the Philip- 
pines, etc, while Aquarius 11° is 49 West Longtitude through Greenland 
and Eastern Brazil. 
Before searching Ascendants at 11° degrees for each it should be 
noted most cf the serious earthquakes rim the entire Pacific Ocean 
shores and islands. From New Zealand north around the Bering Sea 
and south down North, Central and South Americas is more or less 
quake prone. The only other major zone in recent years is Eastern 
Europe in the area cf 40" to 45° North Latitude and 20° to 50° East 
Longitude. The latter "rings a bell" that the Aries-Taurus MC locality 
in that area of North Latitude has a Leo Ascendant. 
Now it is a simple matter cf locating in a Table cf Houses in the 
Latitude of 45° as a beginning for 11° cf Leo on the Asc. This is located 
and shows 28" Aries on the MC. In the column for 46° North Lat. the 
11° Asc. has 26" Aries on the MC. On the Locality map 26" to 28° 
Aries is 26° to 28° East Longitude. This would show formation cf a 
possible epicenter where internal pressure begins to build at approxi- 
mately (we have avoided minutes by dealing only in degrees cf latitude 
and longitude) 46° North Latitude and 27° East Longitude. This 
center is 50 to 100 Miles north cf Bucharest, Rumania. 
If this is the where, the question is when? There must be a trigger 
where any of the pressure build-up could explode. Mars at the 7th

--- PAGE 140 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
139 
cusp ruling the 10th and part cf the 4th promises heavy property 
damage and government losses. Saturn at the 1st (people) rules the 6th 
afflicted is prospect cf many death and health hazards. Uranus in the 
4th gives promise cf an entirely unexpected event requiring help from 
other countries. Therefore a trigger point is serious. The first one is the 
Sun crossing 11" Pisces on March 2nd, and then the Moon conjunct 
Saturn and the Asc. March 3rd. On the 4th Mercury is at 3° Pisces 
after completing the 162° quintile to Asc. Saturn for the big test; if 
anything is to happen it is due March 4th, 1977. 
On March 8th, 1977 Mercury was 120° from Uranus and 150° from 
Saturn. Using 130° East Longitude and North Latitude (10° Leo on 
the Locality map and Saturn on the MC) a quake occurred below cf 
Japan Sea. This action is attributed to a reflex cf the same February 
24th aspects.

--- PAGE 141 of 143 ---

140 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
Rumania Quake 
46 N 264 East 
March 4, 1977 
12 
?r 
"Y- 
II 
11 
11 
28 
28 
■189 
VS 
12 
Qy 
25 
Epicenter reported 95 miles north cf Bucharest. 
MAJOR MODERN EARTHQUAKES AND THE RICHTER SCALE 
The most commonly used method for describing earthquake intensity 
is the Richter Scale. 
The system, devised by C. F. Richter and later refined by Richter and 
Beno Gutenberg, measures the magnitude cf a quake on a logarithmic 
scale using readings from a pendulum seismograph. 
Each number represents an intensity about 10 times greater than 
the preceding number—an earthquake rated 7.5 would be 15 times 
greater than a shock measured at 6 on the scale. 
A Richter reading cf 1 to 3 would be a light tremor; 3 to 4, minor 
damage near center; 5-6, moderate damage near center with injuries 
unlikely; 6 to 7, felt over large area, heavy damage near center with 
injuries possible, 7 to 8, widespread damage, fatalities probable; above 
8, many buildings destroyed and large number cf deaths and injuries. 
Richter readings have been used to evaluate all major quakes in the 
20th century.

--- PAGE 142 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
141 
• ^ _ 
Leningrad 
o fh U.S.S.R.T 
Moscow" 
Stockholm 
North 
Sea 
den. 
Riga 
sc? 
NETH. 
Berlin 
r • 
yEAST 
Warsaw 
POLAND 
WEST EA 
GERMANY 
MAJOR 
EARTHQUAKE 
CZECAy0Tv 
Vienna i**" MKIA^ 
\ 
5WITZ 
Austria 
mgA 
ROMANIA/ I ^ \ 
^ y^Bu^est 
Belgrade* 
Black Sea 
BULGARIAX 
X 
J- o. 
o 
-v A 
Rome 
-7 
A 
ALB. 
ITALY 
SICLY 
TURKEY 
<3 
GREECE 
Place 
New Madrid, Mo. 
San Francisco, Calif. 
Valparaiso, Chile 
Kansu, China 
Tokyo, Japan 
Non-Skan, China 
Japan 
Chilian, Chile 
Southern Chile 
Alaska 
Guatemala 
Near Peking, China 
* Estimate by Frank M. 
Dale 
1811-1812 
April 18, 1906 
Aug. 16, 1906 
Dec. 16, 1920 
Sept. 1, 1923 
May 22, 1927 
March 2, 1933 
Jan. 24, 1939 
May 21, 1960 
March 27, 1964 
Feh. 4, 1976 
July 28, 1976 
Wolley in the "People's Almanac. 
Richter 
Deaths 
10* 
?? 
8.3 
452 
8.6 
20,000 
8.6 
100,000 
8.3 
99,330 
8.3 
200,000 
8.9 
2,990 
8.3 
28,000 
8.3 
5,000 
8.5 
114 
7.5 
22,778 
8.2 
300,000

--- PAGE 143 of 143 ---

142 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
The problem cf earthquakes has persisted for centuries and the ef- 
forts to define the time and place of occurrence goes on. My work in 
the subject has been incidental as a phase cf economic causes. For 
centuries astro-cyclic data applied to quakes has been issued. Much of 
it has involved quarterly Ingress charts applied to areas which might 
be suspect. Then-charts based on timing comets, eclipses cf both the 
Sun and the Moon, and conjunctions cf resulting charts with Fixed 
Stars have been used. T o examine the material can become quite a 
laborious exercise. However, as scores cf quakes and the reported data 
on them are applied to the same procedures as outlined here for locality 
weather prospects the charts always exhibited fair results. Here is a 
recent example. 
On November 23rd, 1976 a major quake began in Eastern Turkey in 
the mountain area near the Soviet and Iranian borders with the final 
death toll estimated in the thousands. The location approximated 40 E. 
Long. 39 N. Fat. for most loss, but the center probably was northeast of 
there in the most mountainous area. Anyway, for illustration purposes 
the above will suffice. 
The Longitude cf 40 East is 10° Taurus and at 39° N. Fat. and the 
Asc, is 17 plus cf Leo, the nadir or 4th cusp is 10° Scorpio. Saturn was 
16° Leo at the Asc., Jupiter at 25 Taurus in the 10th, Uranus conjunct 
the cusp of the 4th in 8 Taurus, the Node nearby in 1° Scorpio and 
Mars, Mercury and Neptune in the 4th. Tension had been brewing for 
several weeks with such a combination assailing the 4th, 1st and 10th 
cusps. The trigger was the lunation (new moon) cf November 21st 
conjunct the 4th cusp and Mars. Also the Moon had just passed a con- 
junction with Uranus. I" explored the lunation solar eclipse cf October 
23rd may have some build-up effects, as it occurred at 0° Scorpio. 
Oddly enough a quake occurred November 24th 100 miles east of 
Bermuda, or about 77 W. Long. 26 N. Fat. (MC 17 Capricorn, Asc 25 
Aries). Then on the 26th cf November a Pacific Coastal area from 
Eureka north to Crescent City suffered a quake, which was 5.8 on the 
Richter scale, and compares with 8.25 in the San Francisco quake cf 
1906. The Eureka Crescent affair was 124 W. Long. 41 to 42 N. Fat, 
which has an MC cf 26" Scorpio and Asc. from 3" to 2° Aquarius. 
Quakes have occurred historically in virtually all locality MC signs, 
but as noted before, concentrations cf planets centering in the Taurus 
Scorpio signs are quake prevalent (one or the other at the MC). How- 
ever, these pressures having intense aspects to the angles cf other areas 
signal major disasters. Examine three events in Far East areas. First, 
the quake July 28th, 1976 centered at Tangshan, China, 40 N. Fat. 118 
E, Long.,MC 28° Cancer ASC. 23° Libra. Second, on August 18, 1976 
at Mindanao, Philippines, 7 N. Fat. 134 E. Long., with MC 4" Leo con- 
junct Saturn and Asc 6° Scorpio conjunct Uranus and the Node. A 
quake, plus a tidal wave, then over 20,000 homeless. And third, on 
September 12th, 1976 at Okayomas, Japan, 35 N. Fat. 134 E Long., a 
typhoon with 41/2 feet of rain in 5 hours, at MC 13° Leo conjunct 
Saturn, Asc. 7° Scorpio with Uranus. These three are related by similar 
conditions but on examination the precise details differ.

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: WDGann_The_Basis_Of_My_Forecasting_Method.pdf
Total Pages: 34
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 34 ---

THE BASIS OF
MY FORECASTING METHOD
by W. D. Gann
(course on the “Gann angles,” 1935)
This E-Book is not to be sold.
It is a free educational service
in the public interest
published by
Gann Study Group

--- PAGE 2 of 34 ---

[OCR] R
WALL STRECT STOCK Sevrcton OVAL ECONOMIC Sociere
New Srogk Taeno Oeracron,

HowTo Mane Porte in GOMMOUITIEN Ww. DD, GAN NM

82 WALL STREET
NEW YORK 5, MN. ¥.

Sea Geiig ee ota Piediseaiek eeiais

Mathematica is the only exact science. All power under hoaven and on earth
ig given unto the man who masters the simple sciences of mathematics. Emerson
said: "God dees indeed geometrize." <Another.wise man said: "There ia nothing
in the uiiverse but mathematical points." Pythagoras, one of the greatest mathe—
maticions that ever lived, after experimenting with numbers and finding the
proofa ef dil natural laws, said: “Before God was numbers," He believed that
the vibration of numbers created God and the Diety. It has been said, “Figures
don't lie." Men have been convineed that numbers tall the truth and that all
problems can be solved by them. The chemist, engineer, astronomer would be lost
without the science of mathematics,

It ts so simple and easy to solve problems and gat correct answers and re—
sults with figures that it seems strange so few people rely on tham to forecast
the future of business, stoeks and commodity miarkets. Tho basic principles aro
@asy to learn and understand. No matter whether you-use geometry, trigonometry,
er calculus, You use the simple ruleo of arithmotic. You de only two things:
You increase or decreaasg,

There are: two kinds of numbers, odd and evan. We add numbers tegether,
which is increasing. We multiply, which is a aherter way to increoaa. We sub—
tract, which decreases, and we diyide, which also decreases: With the use of
higher mathematics, we find a quicker and easier way ta divide, subtract, add
and multiply, yet very simple when you understand it.

Everything in nature is mole and female, white and black, harmony or
inharmony, Tight and left, The market moves only two ways, up and down. There are
three dimensions which we know haw to prove--width, length and height. We use
three figures in geometry—-the circic, the square, and the triangle. We get the
square and triangle points of a circle to determine Points of. time, price and
space resistence, We use the circle of 360 degrees te measure Tima and Price.

There ane three kinds of angles--the vertical, the horizontal, and the
diagonal, which we use for measuring time ahd price movements. Wa use the square

ef odd and even numbers ta get net only the proof of market movements, but the
cause.

HOW TO MAKE CHARTS

Charts ard records of pest market movements. The futurs io but a repatition
of the past. There is nothing now. «As tha Bible saye——"Tho thing that hath
been, it is that whleh shall bo.” History repeats and with charta and rules we
determine when and how it is going to répeat. Therefore, the first and most
important point to learn is how to make charts correctly because if you make an
error in the chart, you will make an error in applying the rules to your trading.

--- PAGE 3 of 34 ---

[OCR] YHARLY CHART: You showld keep a yearly high and low chart, that is, recording

the extreme low and the extreme high price made during the
eglondar year on ong line, The spacing for the price can be used one point te
each 1/8 inch or two points or more, according ta the activity end range of the
stock,

MONTHLY CHART: You must always keep up a monthly high end lew chart, which is

the most importent chart of all in determining thea main trend,
This chart records the extréme high and extreme low price for the calendar month
on one line, and each space or 1/8 inch on the sross—seotien chart paper should
represent ono poimt or $1 per sharo.

WEEKLY CHART: The next end one of the very important charts to koop is a woekly

high end low chart. Where stocks are solling bolow 60, 1% usually
peya to make this ohart up using each 1/8 inch to reprosent one-half point, or
two spaces to reprasent one full point, or four points for each ono-inch space.
When stocks become very active, especially when thoy are solling above $100 por
share, then you can make up the wookly chart using oach space or 1/8 inch on the
chart paper tq represont ono point or $1 por sharo.

SEMI-WEEKLY OR 3-DAY CHART; The noxt chart of importance to the Wookly Chart is

a 3-doy chart, that is, taking tho oxtromo high and
extreme low price made from tho oponing of tho markot om Monday morning until tho
close on Wednesday night, closing the chart on Wodnesday night~ thon from tha
opening on Thursday to the close on Saturday, teking the extremo high ond low and
elosing the chert on Saturday. This gives you a timo poriod showing one-half of
the week, This chart is vory importent os will bo explained lator on in tho
instructions, Tho speeing for this chart cen be the samo as for tho wookly high
ond low chart.

WEEKLY MOVING-AVERAGE OR MEAN POINT: To got a Wookly Moving-Averugo, wo take

tho oxtrome low fer tho wook ond the ox-
trome high for the week ond divide by 2, getting the half-way or mean point for
the weak. This cam be recorded on the weekly high and low chart or on a soparate
chart, recording the Woekly Moving-Ave rage with a dot and using ono line on the
chart for each week, Importence of this Woekly Moan Point will be explained lete

DAILY CHART: When you ore trading in a stock that is active, you should alweys

koep up 4 deily high ung low chart, but for study purposes it is
enough to keep up the Weekly and:Monthiy Charts, which give you the main trond,
The Daily Chart shows the minor trend end shows a change in trond mich oftoner
thon ony of the other charts, but the indication doos not last as long or rm «60
fer, This chart showlé be kept up tho same as the others, oxcept when stocks ere
solling below 50 er whem they are in om inactive trading range- then tho spacing
should bo 1/2-point to each 1/8-inch on the chart popor, allowing two spacas to
represent ono full point or $1 per sharo. Whon stocks arg ostive ond advoneing
vory fast, making e wide, renga cach day, thon you can make tho Daily Chart the
same os the Wockly or Monthly, that is, using one point for each 1/8-inoh on the
chart papor, This sposing cuts the chart down and keeps it im a rango where it
is casy to soo and road when fluctuntions are wide.

No spooos oro skipped on the Daily Chart for holidays or Sundays, therefore
the time period is for actual market days and not calendar days, However, you
should carry tho calendar days along at loast ovary two weeks, as lator, under
rules for Timo Periods for chango in trend, you will find that it is necessary
to check up and know when tho stock is 30, 60, 80, 120, 135, ote. days from a tep

--- PAGE 4 of 34 ---

[OCR] or a bottem, which moans calondor doys, the exact moneuremont of Time for tha
deily chart. Often tho Daily Chart on actual daily movements comes out on tn
oxect mathomatice] angle of timo measurement ot the same time the calendar days
soma out on exact timo measurement, molding it a doubly important point for chongo
in trond.

GEOMETRICAL ANGLES

ifter long yours of practical axporienca, I have discovered that Geometrical
Angles measure ascurntely Spsoo, Time, Volume and Price.

Methematias is the only exact seiense, as I hove said before. Every nation
on the face of the earth agrees that 2 and 2 make 4, no matter what language it
speaks, Yet all other sciences are not in accord as mathematical science. Wa
find different mon in different professions along scientific lines disugresing
on problems, but there can be no disagreement in mathematical ealewletion.

There ere 560 degroas ina circle, no matter hovlarge or how small the circle
may bo. Cortain numbors of these degrees and angles aro of vast importance and
indicate when important tops and bottoms occur on stocks, as well as denote
importent Resistonoo Levels, Whon ones you havo thoroughly mastored tho Coometri-
eal fnglos, you wil] be uble te solve any problem ond determine tha trond of any
atoak,

After 35 years of research, tests and practical applicetions, I have per=
fected ond proved the most important anglos to bo used in determining the trond
of tho stock market, Therefore, concontrato on those angles wmtil you thorough-
ly Understond thom. Study and experiinont with each rule I give you, end you will
male a succoss.

We use geometrical engles to measure Space and Time »eriods because it is a
shorter and quicker method than addition or multiplication, provided you follow
the rules and draw the engles or lines accurately from tops and bottoms or ex-
treme highs and lows, You may make a mistake in: addition or multiplication, but
the geometrical angles accurately drawn will conreot this mistake, For exemple:
If you should count across the bottom of your chart 120 spaces, which represents
120 deys, weeks, or months, then you begin at "G" and numbor vertically on your
chart up to 120—- then from this top point at 120 draw a 45-dogroo angle moving
down, this will come out at "Oo" on 120 poimts over from the beginning. If you
have mode a mistake in numbering, this will correct it,

‘ingles drawn on 6 chart alwoys koop bofore you the position of tho stook ond
its trond whereas if you had a resistonce point on time written dowm, you might
iIislay it or forget it but these angles aro always on the shart in front ef you,

These ongles or moving-average trend lines correctEy drawn will keep yeu from
making mistakes or misjudging the trond. If you wait ond follow your rules, these
engles will show you when the trond changes.

The moving-averago as commonly used is obtained by taking tho extreme low
price end the extreme high price of the calondar day, waek or month, ond dividing
it by two to get the moon or average price for the day, weak or month, and con-
timuing this at tha ond of oach-time pericd, This is en irrogular movenent in
spaces or points per weak beceawse ob ono time Jt moy move up 2 points per week

--- PAGE 5 of 34 ---

[OCR] end at encther 5 pointe por wook, while tho tima porded is a4 rogulor unit. Thero-
fore goometrioal angles, which oro roally moving-oaverages, move wp or down ob on
uniform rete from ony bottom or top on a dally, wookly or monthly chart.

thera are three important points thot we san prove with mathematics or
geometry: the Circle, the Square, and the Triangle, After I have mado the Square
I can drew o Circle in it using the same diameter, and thereby produce the Thd-
engle, the Squares and the Circle.

The Angles or moving-trend=line averages measure and divide Time end Price
inte proportionate parts. Refer to Form "1", where I have dravm the square of
28. You will note thet this is 28 high end 28 wide- in other words, 28 up and
26 eeross, It is the same as a square room which has a bottom or floor, a top or
welling, ond side wnlis, Everything has width, length, ond height.

Ey an BOSneeee [ _
“eb bide tae ER EEE-FEF-

PTs
|

SCHAAR EERE ECR Ege eR
SEECEEEEEERE PREPRESS

To get the strongest end most important points in this Square, I divide it
inte two equal parts by drawing o horizontal ond a vertieal lino. Wote angle
marked "A! which divides cach of the smaller squares into two equal parts ond
runs from "0" to "28" diagonally, This is a diagonal line moving on a 45° ongle
and divides the lergs Square into two equal parts, Then note angle "B" ot 14"
running horizontally across, This divides tho Square into tro equal parts, Note
engle "O", which is a vertical line, running up from "14", whioh is one-half of
28", This crosses wt the contor or half-way point at 14, whore the other onglos
oresa, dividing tho Square dnte two ogual party, Thenenete angle "DO", which
forms cnother 459 onple moving from tho N. W. corner to the S, E. cornor, cross—
ing "14" at the oxact half-way point, You soa by this that if wo draw the first
dino thru the sonter of tho square, we divide it inte two equal parts— then when

--- PAGE 6 of 34 ---

[OCR] we draw lines from the other directions, we divide it imte four equal parts—
then by drawing the two lines from eech corner, we divide the square into & equal
parts and produce 6 triangles.

As you look at this Square, it should be easy for you to tell with your eye
where the strongest support point is or resistance point is. It is at the center
where all the angles cross. Four angles cross at this point, so naturally this
would be a stronger support point than a place where only one angle crosses. I
could civide each one of these smaller squares into four or eignt equal parts by
drawing angles in the same way. Later, when I give you the rules and examples,
Iwill explain how to square the Range of a stock, that is, the difference be-
tween the extreme low and the extreme high prices, or the difference between any
low point and any high point, and also how to sauare the bottom price. For ex-
ample: If the top of a stock is 28, this Square of 2& x 28 would represent
squaring the Price by Time, because if we have 28 points up in Price, and we move
over 28 spaces in Time, we square the Price with Time. Therefore, when the stock
has moved over 28 days, 28 weeks, or 28 months, it will be squaring its price
range of 26,

PATTERN CHART FOR GEOMETRICAL ANGLES _

The Square of 90, or the Pattern Chart, shows all the measured angles that
are important to use in determining the position of a stock. These angles are as

follows: 32, 7d, 15, 18%, 264. 30, 333, 374, 45, 524, 56%, 60, 638, 71d, 75,
624, S864, and OO degrees.

It is not necessary to measure these angles with a protractor. All you have
to do to get the angles correct is ta count the spaces on the chart paper, using
&x 6 to the inch, and draw the lines or angles accordingly.

On the square of 90, which you will receive with these instructions, note
how equal angles drawn from the top and from the bottem prove themselves by the
point at which they cross, For example:

The angle of & x 1 drawn from "0" and the angle of & x 1 drawn from "90"
down both cross at 45, 5-5/6 points over from "0" counting to the right. Then,
the angle of 4 x 1 from "O" and the angle of 4 x 1 down from "90", you will
notice, cross at llé on 45, equidistant from the other angle and twice the
measure. The reasan why these anglea prove this way is because the 45° angle
or 43 points or degrees from "6" to 45 is one-half of 90 Therefore, parallel
angles beginning at "0" going up and at 90 coming down, must cross on a 45° angle
or at the gravity center,

_ HOW TO DRAW ANGLES FROM A LOW POINT RECORDED BY_A STocK

An example marked "Form 2" shows you the most important angles to use when
@ stock is working higher and advancing. (See page 6)

FIRST IMPORTANT GEOMETRICAL ANGLE:

The first and always most important angle to
45 or lxi

draw is a 45-degree angle or a moving-average
that moves up one point per day, one point
per week or one point per month. This is a 45° angle because it divides the Space
and Time Periods inlo two equal perts As long as the market or a stack stays
above the 45° angle, it is in a strong position and indicates higher prices. You
can buy every time a stock rests on the 45° angle with a stop less order one, two
er three points under the 45° angle, but remember the rule— never use a stop

--- PAGE 7 of 34 ---

[OCR] GA~5

losa order more thon 3 points away, Unless stooks ore noor the low levels or
just starting in a bull market or selling at vary low prices, I abvays usaa stop
less order one point wider the 45° angle. If this ongle is broken by one point,
you will usually find thet the trend has changed at least temporarily and tho
stock will go lower,

An cosy way to caloulate accurately haw to put on this 48° ongle is:
For oxamplo: If the timo is 28 duys, 20 woeks, or 28 months from the point where
the stock was bottem, then the angle of 45° mist bo 28 points up from the botton
and would cross ot 28. This is one of the ebsiast angles to put on and one of
tho simplost to lear, You can boat the market by trading agoinet tha 45° onglo
alono if you atick to the rule-— wait to buy a stock on the 45° emglo or wait to
sell it against the 45° ongle.

ian

Pri ay" ro

FEEEEEEEA : ek che - “oF

ne ey

J i |

f
I
I
=
1
i
f

ctHH+-+* = [CPE ERE

NEXT IMPORTANT ANGLE is the angle of 2.x 1, or the moving-average which moves up

2x at the rate of 2 points per day, week or month. It divides

the space between the 45-degres engle and the vertical

engle into two equal parts and measures 632° That is why it is the next strong-
ast and most important angle. As long as a stock holds above this angle, it is
in a stronger position than when it is resting oh a 45° angle because it is a
more acute angle. When a stock breaks wider this angle of 2x 1, or two points
for each time porled, then it indicates that it will .g0 lower and reach the 45°
angle. Remember tho rule of all ogles: No matter what angle the stock breaks
under, it indicates a decline to tho noxt angle bolow it.

--- PAGE 8 of 34 ---

[OCR] THIRD IMPORTANT ANGLE, which is st4il stronger as Long as a steck holds above it,

bo is the onglo which moves up 4 points per day, wook, or

month, This angle is 4x1, or 4 points of Spaco equal

one period of Time. It moasures 75° and divides the space between the angle of
2x 1 and the 90° angle into two equal parts. d#ny stock thet continues to advance
# points per day, 4 points per week, or 4 points per month, and remoine above this
angle ig in a vory strong position as long as it stays ebove it, bub when it
breaks undor, it indicates the noxt angle or next support point according to the
pesition of tho stock on Tima,

FOURTH IMPORTANT ANGLE is tho angle of 8 x 1 or the one that moves up 8 points
&xl ber day, week or month, This angle moasures B2h°, As
long as a stock can hold above this angle on daily, woeke
ly or monthly chart, it is in the strongest possible position, but when it rever-
ses trond ond declines below this angle, then it indicates a dooline to the next
angle.

NEXT ANGLE; It is possible to uso an angle of 16 x 1, or 16 points of Price to
16 ox one poried of Time, which measures 862°, but this anglo is only used
in fast, advancing markets, like 1929, when stocks ara moving up or
down 16 pointe or moro por wock or par tenth. There are very few stocks that
will move up 16 points per day, wook or month, and vory seldom,

You will note that with thesu four importent angles we show tha strong or
vublish side of the market, All tho time by dividing the Spooo with onglos we
are getting the half-way point or tho gravity center of Time and Prices.

Sx 2 ANGLE: Nete the anglo drawn in Groen, marked "3x i", which moves up at tho

rate of 3 points per day, week or month, measuring Tle, This
anglo is important of times after markets have had a prolonged advonce and are a
long distance up from the bettem. It is an important angle to use on Monthly end
Wookly charts,

These are all the ongles you need os long as 4 stock continues to advanco
ond work up end stays above the angle of 45° or the moving-uverage of ons point
per day, wook or month.

Whilo thera ore 560 dogroes in a circle ond angles can form ot any of thaso
degrees, o11 of tho important angles form betwoen “O" ond "90" bocause 90 is
straight up ond down ond the most acute angle on which a steck can rise. For
exemple: The 45° ongle divides the spoce from "OY to "90" in half. The angle
of 155° is simply another angle of 45° becouse it is one-half of tho noxt quadrant
between 90 ond 160, 225 and 315 in a circle are also 45° englos. Thorefere all
of the anglos valuable in determining tho trend of a stook nro found Betwaen "oO"
and "SO" degroos. Whon we divide 90° by 8 we got the most important unglos to
uso- thon divide it by 3 wo got 30 and 60° englos, which are important to use for
Timo ond Rosistence Points.

WHAT KIND OF BOTTOMS TO DRAW ANGLES
OR MOVENG-AVERAGE LINES FROM

DATLY CHART; If a stock has beon doslining for some timo— then starts to rally
(py rallying from a bottom it must make higher bettoms every day
ond higher tops)— thon after c Sday rally on the daily high ond Low chart, you
son put on tho 45° ongie and the angle of 2 x 1 frem the bottom or low point, As
a rulo, it will only bo necossary to pub on these tyro angles oat first. If this

--- PAGE 9 of 34 ---

[OCR] bottem holds and ta not broken, then you san put on the other ungluo from the
bottom,

WEEELY CHANT: If a stock is declining and yveoots for morc than one wook and can-
tinves down, wo will sey, for thrae wooks or mora, then starts

te relly ond advances two wooks or moro, you would start to put the angles on

from the low point of thu decline, only using the anglos above tho 45° angle

until the stock again breaks under the 45° angle- aftor that you would use tho

othor onglos on the lowor or bearish side of tha Saunora,

WHAT TO DO APTER THE 46° ANGLS FROM BOTTOM TS BROKEN

After a stock makes top, cithor temporary or otherwise, and breaks under tho
45° ongle and starts moving dowm, then the first thing you do is to draw angles
below the 45° ongle, starting from the bottom or Low point. Note example marked
"Porm ¥/S";

“LE Ley | Gey genpepe LLrrre
GE BoP seoSSSECeEEEssaee
F i
Ct
= 4+--E Er t- FEES
- | _ [tf [i
— a CI
coy f -
a
= EE a
ae tae ol
kg FE
eeEEEEHE OEE CHEEEE -|

FIRST ANGLE ON BEAR SIDE OF THE SQUARE: Tho first angle thet you draw on the
2x1 bear sida of the Square is the ongls

of 2x lor 2 points over and one point

up, Which moves ot the rete of one-half point per day, weok or momth and measures

263°, This is the first support engle which the stock should rench after it brook
under the 45° angle, As o generol rule, when the stock reaches this angle, it

--- PAGE 10 of 34 ---

[OCR] =r

will roooive support ond rally. Somotimeys it will rest on it for ao lenge period
of tame, holding on this angle ond melcing higher bettoms, But when this omgle
of 2x1, or moving-oavorage of ono-half point per day, weok or mowth is broken,
thon you must drew the next angle of 4 x 1,

NEXT IMPORTANT ANGLE: The next important angle on tho boar side of the Squaro,
x 1 which moves up ab tho rate of 1/4-point por day, is tha
englo of 4.x 1, moasuring 15°, Tt will be tho next strong
support angle which the stock should got support on and rally from,

NEXT ANGLE 8 x 2: Thon after tho 4x 1 angle is broken, the noxt important

engle that you will put on your chart is the anglo of & x l,
which moves at the rato of 1/8-point por day, woek or month end measures 72°,
This is often a very strong support ongle. Aftor a stock has had a big decline,
it will often rest on this onglo goveral timos or moy make final bottom ond
start up from this anglo, crossing othor angles and gotting back into a strong
position again, Thorefore this engle is important to uso on « monthly or woukLly
chart after o prolonged decline,

ANGLE 16 x 1: This englo can be usod on o monthly chart after a long period of
timo has elepsod from ah important bottom, It movos at the rate
of 1/16 point per month and moasures 32°,

ANGLE OF $ x 1: This anglo, dravm in rok ink, is a vory important ongle,

Incasuring 18629, 1 strougly advise using it st all timos and
keoping it up on monthly sharts from any important bottom, It con elso bo used
to adventago at times on wookly charts, but is seldom of mech valuc on a daily
chort, It moves ot the rete of ono-third point por day, week, or month, By
drowing this on the monthly chart for a long period of yoars, you will soon bo
convinood of its value and also by tosting 1t on o weekly chart, will find it
valuable.

This completes all of the angles that you will need to use from any botten
at any tine.

HOW TO DRAW ANGLES FROM TOPS
ON DAILY, WEEKLY OR MONTHLY CHARTS
—— ee

POSITION UNDER 45° ANGLE DRAWN PROM TOP; after a stook has mede top end declined
for o rensonable length of time, say,
three days, three weeks or three months, breaking previous bottoms, then you
start to draw angles down from the top. Noto example marked “Form #4", whioh is
the pettern for drawing angles from the top under the 45° angle, (see page 10)

45° ANGLE FROM TOP; The first angle you dray is the angle of 45° or a moving-
average which indicates a decline of one point per day, week

er month. As long as the stock is below this angle, it is in the weakest position
and in o bear morket,

OTHER ANGLES: In mony cases a stack will start doc lining on average of & points

per day, week or month, or 4 points par day, woek or month, or 2
points per day, week or month, thorofors you should put on oll of thosa angles
from the top, whieh move down faster than tho angle of 45°,

WEAKEST POSITION: Tho stock is in the weakest possible position when it declinos
ond keeps under tho angle of 8x 1, Tt ds in tha noxt woak.

--- PAGE 11 of 34 ---

[OCR] UE=I0

est position whon it is dropping down at the rate of 4 points par day, week or
month, or under the angle of 4x 1. It is in its next weakest position when it
is dropping down wnder the angle of 2x 1,

STRONGEST Position: The stock is im a stronger position and indicates a better

rally when it crosses the angle of 2x 1, but this depends
on how far it is down from the top and how far the ongles are apart, os will be
explained later under the rules.

CHANGING TREND: As long as a stock is declining one point per day, week or
month, or falling bolow or under tha 45° angle, it is still in
a bear market and in a very weak position, When a steck rallies and crosses the
angle of 45° after a prolonged declins, then you are ready to put on the anglos
on the other side of the 45° angle, which shows that the stock is in ea stronger
position in a bear market end may be getting ready to change into o bull market,

OU EeEEeCEReTECece reer: ary
H ae Se poh Pe Hy
Ch 4 Te a) nn)
Pcie Iolo 7
SSEERCCESE rere as
aa 7] | =
NREL Neb icicic 4
=A
SHEET ERASE SRE :
tel eee
CI =| a]
rey i ‘ x | Ty
rx i: Ee RS
Fr Patt c
CC ae ie CeNGrCrrec tr My
| -}.-|-[.| | - i: -
a" — r]
: 7
“EERE +4 +H
| PEPE “TI
eo =
a ee “pry . =
i
SESH HEE FH

POSITION ABOVE 45° ANGLE DRAWN FROM TOP

Refer to Form #5, which is the pattern for drawing engles above tho 45°
angle from the top. (Seo nage 11)

2x 1 ANGLE FROM TOP: Tho first angle or moving-averoge you draw after tha 45°
englo from the tep is creased and after tho steck indi-

--- PAGE 12 of 34 ---

[OCR] GALL

gatos thet it has mado a temporary hottem ds tho angle of 2 x 1, moving over 2
pointe ond dovm ono point, or 1/2—polnt por wit of Time. This is moving down
at the rate of 1/2-point por month, woek or day,

4 x 1 ANGLE; The noxt is the angle of 4x 1 which moves dow at tho rate of
L/4-point per day, wook or month.

8 x 1 ANGLE; The noxt angle is the angle of 8 x 1, which moves down at tho rate
of one point every 8 days, 8 woeks or 8 months, or 1/8-point per

time poried. hyo COCO Ceo C i
a i
_| So Ean
—j)—|—| |_| SS Sed :
ARERR ARE Pa Ps ep its i.
PEE SRE
EAA-E aoe an me
Ci i= C
HA-PEEAAA ry
tH EEE rH
: L
reyes aaa
_ te we et Ae 4 eer
2 ae | f i ’
ote cE EEEEH EAE HEE EEE E-EEEFER-EEEER

STRONG POSITION; After tho stock has croggad the angle ef 45¥ od rallied up

to the angie of 2x 1, it will moot selling and react to some
angle coming up from the bottom of the last move, bit it. is im a stronger
position whon it holds above this angle of 2 x 1 ond is in the next strongost
position when it crosses tho mngle of 4 = 1, Grossing the ongle of 6 x 1, which
is of loast Impertanoo, it indicates thet it is in a very strang position again
from the top. You must always consider a movoment coming up fron bottom and its
position on englos from the bottom to determine its atrongth, Is is important
to consider. the numbor of points it hos moved up from the bottom ond how many
points it is dowm from the top,

ox 1 ANGLE; The angle of $ x 1 drovm in red on Form #S moves down at the rate

of One point every thraa days, throo wooks or throo months, or ona-
third point por dey; week or month, This angle is impertont to use after pro—-
longed doclinos.

This completes the forms of 211 the angles that yeu will moed.to uso at any
time from tops or bottoms, Practica putting thoso angles on tops and bottoms un-
til you thoroughly understand how to do thom and lmow that you are gotting thom

--- PAGE 13 of 34 ---

[OCR] GAa12

absolutely accurate. Thon you oan bogin to study the rules for dotermining the
trend according to tho position of the stock on ongles,

DOUBLE AND IRIPLE TORS OR BOTTOMS

ANGLES CROSSING EACH OTHER: Whon there is a doublo bottem several days, wooks

or months apart, you draw ongles from these bettoms,
which are near the some price levels, For example: From the first bottom draw
a 45° onglo ond from the second bettom draw an angle of 2 x 1l- then whon these
angles cross each other, it wil], be an important point fer a change in trend,
Note on chart marked Form #6 that I have drawn tho 45° engle from the first bot-
tom "1B" end the angle of 2 x 1 on the right hand side of the 45° engle. Then,
from the second bottom "2B" I hava drawn a 45° angle and the engle of 2 x 1,
which gains 2 points por day, weak or-wonth, on the left hand or bull side of the
45° engle, You will note that the angle of 2x 1 from the second bottom crosses
the angle of 2 x 1 on the bear side from the first bettom ot 48, amd that when
the stock breaks under these ongles, a change in trend takes placa and it goes
lower,

Note thet the angle of 2 x 1 from the third bottom "3B" crosses tho anglo
of 2% 1 on the bear sido from the first bottom at 55% and crosses the 45° angle
from fhe second bottom at 58. This would be a point to wetch for change in trond.
I have placed a girale where thosa angles from tho different bottoms como togethor

Apply this rule to double tops and triple tops in the samo way. It is not

heoossary for tho tops or bottoms to he oxeotly et tho some price leval, but
near tho samo level. Romomber, eiways draw 45° anglos from oll importont tops
ond bottoms, : . . bo
. ! went EEE Peer joe
a i 1 7
on f
i ALE aaaad
i i
Has . 41 Lo Ae — =||-\4)-|-. |}
= i
| i }
| 1
——R—
oT i I
Perey 7 =
_ ne a CT j
er CC -
EEEEE “PRCEEEEE ---L-A eB aa
am - Litre 1 I
PARALLEL ANGLES
Parollol anglos or lines run from important tops ond bottoms. As previously
explained, the 45° onglo is the most important ond should bo drawn from ali

important tops and bottoms. If a atock starts advenoing, wo draw a 45° onglo from
the bottom- thon if the stocic makos top, declines and makes o higher bottem— then

--- PAGE 14 of 34 ---

[OCR] GA-13

advoncos ond mokos o highar top, we drow a 45° anglo from tha first top, running
the lino up. Thies will givo tho oscillation or width of fluctuation in a parallel
betweon the 45° augle from the bottom ond the 45° angle ruoning up from the tep,
Often a stock will advance to the 45° omgle from the first top, fail to oress it,
then decline and rest on the 45° engle from the first bottom- then advence again,
working up for a prolonged bull oampaign between those parallel mglos.

When the angleg ore very fer epart, you caw draw another. 45° angle aqui-
distant between them, which is often oa strong subpert angle from which o stock
will rally, but whon it breaks under, it declines to the bottom parallel.

Farollels con form between the omglas of 2 x 1 or 4 «1 just the samo os
between 45° onglos, which often oceurs in slow-moving atocks,

GEOMETRICAL ANGLES OR MOVING-AVERAGE LINES
DRAYN FROM "oO"

When a stodk roaches bottom ond storts up, you have been instructed to draw
ongles from this exact low point, whioh shows the support in time poriods, but
there aro other ongles thet later on will ba just as important and somotimos more
important ‘then tho angles drawm from the bottom of a stock, Thase are tho anglos
that begin et “O" or sero and move up at the somo rate that they move up from tho
bottem, The starting point mast be on the sama line that the bottom is made on
as the time poriod bogins from this bottom, but the angles move up from "Oo",
These anglos should bo started ovory timo a stock makes a bottom, ospooinily on
wookly ond monthly charts, und should also bo carriod Gp on important movements
on the daily chart, Exomple: Soo chart marked Form g{7 on page 14.

If a stooly makes low at 20, as shown on the chart, starting the 45° angle
from "O", whon will this angle reach 207 Answer: ‘It will reech 20 in 20 days,
20 wooks or 20 months from the bottom or its starting point. In other words, in
20 days, 20 wooks, or 20 months, it will be up 20 from "0" ond at tho price where
the stock made bottom, Then tho mele will continue on up at the same rate, and
later, when the stock breaks under the 46° angle from the actual bottom made at
20 and breaks the other support angles dravm from the actual bottom of 20, the
next important point for support will be the angle of 45° moving up from "0",
When this engle is broken, it is in the weakest Possible position and indicates
mich lower vrices, but this depends on how high the stock is -selling and how
much it has declined at the time it breaks the 45° angle from "0", These angles
drawn from "0", espectally the 45° angle, proves when Price and Time aro balanc—
ing or when the stock is squaring out. from its bottom,

"O" ANGLES STARTING AT THE TIME TOP Is MADE
re EL Ee

When a ateck reshhes extreme top on a daily, weekly or monthly chart and the
trend turns dam, you should start an ‘angle of 45° from "po" moving wo from the
exeot space and date that tha top is mado, This will preve the square of the
time period, It is very important when this angle is reached and indicates a
chenge in trond, It is the last strong support and whon broken, it will indicate
much lower prices.

T hove imatructed you in oach case to first draw the 45? ongle from bottom,
top ond from "0" at bottom ond top, but this dues not moan that you must not uso
the othar angles. ALl of tho other angles can be used from “ot, bat tho 45°
ongio is the first ond most important. After this anglo is broken, thon you con
uso tho other ongles, It is not necessary to carry all of them along until you

--- PAGE 15 of 34 ---

[OCR] GaA-14

neod thom, but on the monthly chart, after a long sories of yoors, thase other
angles should be carried along when the stock begins to approach the levels
whordé thoy would bo brokon or whero the stook would rost on them ond recoivo
support.

45° ANGLE FROM "oO" TO TOP AND BOTTOM: When a 45° angle moving up from "0"

a roeoheas the line or price of the bottom,
dt 4a very inportent— thon again when 1t reaches the point of the oxtrema high
price, it is very important for a change in trend.

You should carry 45° ongles ond other angles up from “O" from all important
first, sacond, end third higher bottoms, especially those where vary much time
has elapsed between these bottoms, You should also start the angle of 45° up
from "0" from the first, second, and third lower tops, ospecially those which
show much time period slepsed, These mmgles are the most important to be carried
on the weekly and monthly charts.

Never overlook keeping up the angles from "0" because they will tell you
when Time is squaring out with Price from tops end bottoms end will locate sup—
port angles or moving-average lines eat a point on the bear side after the first
45° angle from o bottom is broken. You could not locate this support point in
any other way except by the angles from "9",

You should go back over past records and bring up these angles and square
out different tops and bottoms so that you can prove to yourself * the groat value
of using those engles,

--- PAGE 16 of 34 ---

[OCR] ANGLES FROM Tops. DOM TO "oO" AND UP AGATH

4 45° onglo starting down from any important tep on 4 monthly er wookly
chart should be continued dowm until it reaches "“O" end then started up again
ot the some rete, After o long number of years botween important tops ond bot—
toms, this ongle coming down and going up agein is importewt, A 45° onglo can
also be continued down from any important bottem-to "0" ond thon started up ogain.
This will show tho aquaring of Prise with Time from ocither top or bottom,

énglos can be started from "O" ot the time ony important time cyska runs
out. For exemple: U. S. Steel made extreme low in 1904. Moy, 1924 would be the
ond of a 20-yoor cycle or 120 months, In May, 1924 Steel made top at 109 against
a 45° onglo begiming ot "0" at the time bottem was mode at 38 in February, 1815.
On account of the importance of this top and « 20-year cycle running owt hero,
we would start a 45° angle end other angles, if wo noad them, from "0" in May,
is24,

May, 1931 would end a T-yoar cycle ef 84 months from 1924, The 45° ongle
running up from "oll in Moy, 1924 crossed ot 64 in May, 1831. Note that ‘St veol
made law ot 834 in June, 1951. In June, 1924 Steel made the Jest low at gab
showing tha importance of the ond of the 20-year cycle, The'45° angle moving up
from "O" in June, 1924 crossed at 84 in June, 1931, od Steol doclined and rested
on this ongle,.

TWO 45° ANGLES FROM THE SAME BOTTOM

As we have previously explainod, the 45° anglo moves Up at the rate of one
point per month and moves down at the rate of one point per month,

Refer to exemple on Chart She

cee ccer a .

—— —|—)__} |, . i

--- PAGE 17 of 34 ---

[OCR] or=ra

You will note that the lew en thts ohart is shown ns 62 ond the stock moves up

to uhigh of G3. a5t oigie ig drum up frem the bottom, and after the stock
reachos top ond starts to work dowm, it bronks the 45° ongle, gotting under it at
a prico of 59. You will note thet I havo dravm anothor 45° anglo dowm from tho
bottom at 52. At the point whore the stock broaks undor tho 459 onglo moving up
from 52 to tho 45° onglo moving dom from 52, the distanoa in points is 16, thero-
foro tho anglos have widened until tho stock could docling 16 points, if it wont
stroight dow, boforo it ronched tho 459 angle moving down from tho bottom,

Note thet I have shown $n tho chart that the stock continues dowm until it
ronchos 40, whore it rests on the 45° angle from the bettom at 52. This would
indioato the strongost support point and of loast o temporary rally, oepocially
as the stock ig down 23 points from the top, Later yeu will find under "Resist—
anco Levels" thet 224 to 24 points is a strong supvort point,

U. S. STEEL: Tako tho extromo low point of U, 8. Steel ot dit in Jonuery, 1927,

Start a 45° angle on the monthly chart moving wp ot tho rate of
one point per month- thon start 2 45° ongle moving down ot the samo roto, This
shows tho sproading of the angles and what con happon when Stoel broaks undor tho
45° snglo coming up from that bottom and tho point whero it con dacline in ox=
trome ponicky markets, like 1931 end 1932,

Tho 45° ongle coming up from the low of Jmuary, 1927 crossed ot 156 in
Ostobar, 1930, Whon U. S. Steel broko this onglo it wont right on down to 1342
an December, 1930, where it rested on the onglo of 2 x 1 from this bottom of Jonu-
ory, L827- then rallied te Fobruary, 1941, ond at tho tima it broke under the
angle of 45° from 1113, it was ot tho 45th month, mother indication of a sherp,
sevara doclino. Horo wo leek at tho 45° snglo moving down from 1113 ond find it
is $0 points dowm from the 45° angle moving up from 1114. These anglos soparcto
at tho rato of to points par month ond boing 45 months from tho bettem, tho stock
would have to docline 90 points to striko the 45° onglo moving dowm from the bot-=
tom. The onglos boing so wide apert indicntod that tho stock could have a wido=
spon broek, This happomod in Decomber, 1931, when Stoel broke wider tha 45°
angle moving down from 111g, putting it into a vory weak position- in fact, in
the weakost position that 2 stock can got in until it can recovor this ongle,

In Junc, 1932, whon J. §, Stocl doclined to 214, it had dropped wider tho 45°
onglo moving dovm from the Last low of 1134 mado in March, 1925, nnd olesed two
months bolow this angle bofero it startod to rosover anglds.

This shows that when 4 stock gots into a very woak position by dropping wn-
dor important onglos moving down from bottoms, after having broken strong angles
moving up from bottoms, it can declino to very lew levals, Thosa extreme fluctuse
tions and declines hava happened in the past and will happen again in tho future.
This proves the squaring out of Timo on the down side or tho balancing up of
FPrico and Tima,

Hore is onothor illustration of the balancing of Prico with Timo; The engle
ef 45° moving up from "OQ" from the bottem at 21% from October, 1907 crossed at
262 in September, 1929 and Steel edvanced to 261, which shows that in 262 months
from the bottom in 1907 Steel had advanced an equivalent of one point per month.
By striking the 45° enéle and failing to cross it, it indicated that the Time
was up end that the stock was turning downtrend for a prolonged bear market,

ANGLES OF MOVING-AVERAGE LINES FROM ONE TOP TO THE NEXT TOP

Refer to example on Chart #9 on page 17.

--- PAGE 18 of 34 ---

[OCR] Gist

You will see that wa have started the bottom at 60. The stock advances six
months to 74, to a point marked "T" ond makes top--reacts for three months te 64,
bronking the 45° angle but rosting on the onglo of 2 x 1 from the bettom——-then
starts advancing ond finally crosses again the 48° mele from 60, getting into a
stronger position, having regained this mgle, In order to determina where it
might meet resistence, os it is in new high territory, we drow. a 45° ongie from
tho top at 74, The stock advances to 90 on the 22nd month from the bottom, strik-
ing the 45° angle from the first top at 74, on the 16th month from the first top,
Boing 18 points up above tho first top, the Time equals tho advonco in tho Price
above tho first top. The 45° angle shows that this is a strong Rosistonce point
ond a place to go short with stop one to three points above the 45° angle,
docline starts ond in the third month the stock ogein brenks under the 45° engle
from the bottom (at 60) at a vory high level. In other words, it is 24 points up
from tho bottom and is now in u much wonker position, because it is so fer from

tho base of support, and indicetes a decline egein to the angle of 2x 1 (marked
in groon).

Don't overlook this rule: After a stosk has advanced to a new high leval,
then declines to the old top at 74, this may be a support point unless it breaks
3 points under it. If it does ond alse bronks the angle of 2 x 1, it will be in

aweaker position and the next point te watch for support end a rally would be the
next bottom at 64,

ANGLES FROM BOTTOM OF FINST SHARP DECLINE

When a stock that has boen advancing for some time, makes top ond holds for
seVerol deys, several weeks or several months, then turns the trend dovm ond has
a sharp, severe decline, there is clweys a rally after this first decline, It
usually makes a lower top on this secondary rolly and then starts to work lower
agein. The bottom of the first decline is a very important point to draw angles

--- PAGE 19 of 34 ---

[OCR] ere)

from, capecially the 45° ongla moving down, as I have done on the ohart mnurkod
Form #10,

peepee | a

cs
“SEE HEE-E-H
SerrErree SS CCCePS Eo

|
JLT TI | i

This chart shows the stock rallying up to areund 75, where the 45° angle
coming wp from the last bottom crosses the angle of 2 x 1 coming down from the
top. Then the declino started and et 66 the steck brake back under the angle
of 45° from the top, which pot it in a very woek position, It declined to the
onglo of 45° coming down from tho bottom of the first sharp decline, This would
bo the squaring out of time from the bottom and would bea a place to buy for a
rolly. A stock will often declina ond drop a little balow this englo from the
botteom-—then if it holds for severcl deys sr wooks wndor this angle or on it,
it is « placa to buy for no rally,

On a Monthly Chart always carry this angle dam from the bottom of the
first sharp decline, as it often becomes very importent later on in @ campaign.

After o stock has been advancing for some time end then has a sharp break
lasting 2 to 3 days, 2 to 3 weeks, or 2 to 3 months--then rallies and afterward
breaks under the lows of this first sharp break, it indicates that the main trend
has turned down ond that it is going lower,

Apoly the same rule when ¢ stock has been declining for a long time and then
makes a sharp, quick recovery for 2 to 3 duys, 2 to 3 weeks, or 2 to 3 months,
then reacts ond then crosses this first rally point thet it made, en indication
of higher prices,

Last SWING IN A BULL OR DEAR MARKET

It is important to drow cngles from the point where the market starts up
ond makeg its last run in a bull market. Rofer to Chart #11 om page 19.

In this exumple note point marked “last bottom", In the last stage of the
bull market o fost udvance follows to a price of 84. We have drawn the ongle

--- PAGE 20 of 34 ---

[OCR] GASts

of 2x1 (a gain of 2 points por dey, woek or month) and the 48° anglo from this
bottom. When the angle of @ x lwas broken, it indieoated that the trond had
turned down. The stook declined ond roatod om tha 4169 mnglo--then rnlliod ond
made a socond Lower top-- thon broks the 45° angle—— declinod sharply and roasted
on the 45° anglo drawn from tho top ot 64, which indioated that Timo ond Price
had squared out or wore oqual. This would be a point to buy,with o stop loss
ordar 2 to 3 points under this onglo, for a rally back to the englo of 2 x 1 from
tho top, os shown on the chart.

In very activo fast-moving markets 4 stock may stay above tho angle of 4 x 1
or the englo of 8 x 1 from the "last bottom," but on Sho daily or weekly chart
after this first acute angle is broken, it indicates that the trond has turned
down.

Always romoambor that after a prolonged advance, whon the main trend turns
dawn, it is safor to wait for rallies end soll short then to buy against the
trond,

“HH EREEEE eH

All of thoso rules ara reversed at tho ond of a banr market or sharp de-
cling. It is important to note when tho markot starts down from tho last top
or relly ond mukes its last rum to bottom. Drew angles from this last top end
watch whon the markot roaches thase importent ongles end erosses thom, For
exemplo:

On March 9, 1952 the Dow-Jonos $0 Industrial Averages mado Inst top at 280,
from which a docline followod, with very small rallies, reaching bottom at 41 on
July 8, 1952. Noto on tha woekly chart that the angle of 2x 1 from the top at 90
crossed at 50 in the week ending July 30, 1932 and after thoy crossed this level
they nover declined te 50 again, and advanced te 81 in Soptombor, 1932. The cross—

--- PAGE 21 of 34 ---

[OCR] ing of this angle was the first definite indication Lhat the main Lrend had
burned up.

It is also important to review the major swing from November 9, 1931, when
the Averages reached a high of 1192, to the low at 404 in July, 1932. This was
the last big swing of the bear market, a decline of 79 points. The half-way
point of this was at 80. In September, 1932 the Averages rallied to 8l-~ then
after they reacted to 50 and advanced, getting above the half-way point, and
crossed 81, they indicated an advance to 119 anyway, After they crossed the
half-way point the second time and advanced above 81, they never sold down to it
again until they advanced to 1494 in November, 1935.

After a stock has been advancing for a long time, in the last run when there
is a lot of momentum, it may cross angles from previous tops or bottoms, then fall
back under them, which is an indication of weakness, When a stock has a sharp
decline and is making bottom, it will drop under important angles and then re-
cover quickly, getting above them, which shows that it is getting into a strong
position and changing trend.

ANGLES FROM HIGHER BOTTOMS AND LOWER TOPS:

What rule should be followed when stocks make higher bottoms and lower tops?

As stocks advance and make higher bottoms on the monthly, weekly or daily
chart, you should always draw angles from higher bottoms. Then, in the last
section of a bull market, if these important angles are broken from the last bot-
tom, you know that the trend has turned down.

Apply thie same rule as a market declines. Draw the angles from each lower
top and watch thetangles until the stocks again cross the 45° angle froma second,
third, or fourth lower top. The second lower top or second higher bottom is al-
ways very important to draw angles from and to measure Time from as well,

Example: Dow-Jones. Industrial Averages—
September 3, 1929 - Extreme high-
November 13, 1929 - Bottom of first sharp decline-
April 17, 1939 —- Big rally in bear market, second lower top-

July 8, 1932 - Extreme low, final bottom
September 8, 1932 - Top of first sharp advance afver bear market
ended-

February and March, 1933 = Second higher bottom from which bull
market was resumed.
These are the most important tops and bottoms to draw angles from.

SECTIONS OF MARKET CAMPAIGNS: |

All market campaigns, up or down, move in 3.to.4 sections. When an advance
starts, the market runs for several weeks or several months and then halts for
several weeks or months, moving up and down over a range of 5 to 20 points, ac-
cording tothe price of the stock--then the advance is resumed and the stock
crosses the high level of the first section, moves higher, halts again, and reacts
for a period of time-- then crosses the top of the second section and moves up
again for another period of time and nalts for the third time, which is a very
important point to watch as markets often culminate at the end of the third
section and a bigger decline follows,

--- PAGE 22 of 34 ---

[OCR] Most markets ryn out in three important sections or canpaigns. However,
after resting and reacting, if a steck crosses the third top, it will then move
up to the top of the fourth section, This fourth advance may be a shorter period
of time than the previous sections, or in some cases may consume a greater period
of time, especially if the stock is very active and high-priced. This fourth top

is very important and generally marks a culmination and a reversal for a bigger
decline,

For example: On March 12, 1935 CHRYSLER MOTORS declined and made low at 31--

FIRST SECTION of the advance carried the stock up to. 499 on May 16~
then the stock declined to 414,

SECOND SECTION-— On June 27 the advance started and the stock advanced to
new high levels, reaching 62% on August 10, which was top
of the second secLion- then there was a réaction to 574
and & resting period,

THIRD SECTION— Then there was another advance which started August 28.
The stock crossed the top of the second section and reached
high at 74 on September 11, top of the third section. Then
followed a reaction to 68 on September 21,

FOURTH SECTION— In October the top of the third section was crossed and
on November 19 Chrysler reached 90, top of the fourth
section, where it held for 5 weeks in a 6-point range while
distribution was taking place. This was a most important
point to watch for a final top and a change in trend. Then
the trend turned down,

Reverse this rule in a bear market. Watch the action of the market when it
makes the third and fourth decline. But, remember, in a bear market when ral-
lies come, they may make only one section or one move or in extreme cases only
make the second se¢tion~ then reverse and follow the main trend down.

You will find it very helpful to study and watch these various sectians of
a campaign and by applying the angles from tops and bottoms You can detect the
first minor and major changes in trend,

STRENGTH OR WEAKNESS DENOTED BY POSITION ON ANGLES -

The angles on the Monthly and Weekly Charts are of greater importance than
those on the Daily Chart because the daily trend can change quite often, while

only the major changes are shown according to the angles on the Monthly and Week~
ly Charts,

Always consider the distance a stack is from ite beginning point when it
breaks any important angle or crosses any important angle, The further away from
the beginning point, the more important the change in trend, whether this is
crossing an angle from the top or breaking under an angle from the bottom.

WHEN A STOCK IS IN THE WEAKEST POSITION:

A stock is in the weakest position when it has completed distribution and
broken under a 45° angle from an important bettom on the weekly or monthly chart.
It is also in the weakest position wher it has breken under the half-way point
between any important top or bottom. The longer the time period has run and
the higher the price, the weaker the position, lor example?

--- PAGE 23 of 34 ---

[OCR] VWH=ctec

If a stool hos advanced to 190 and has only moved dewn 25 points whon tho
46° omglo from an oxtromo low on a wookly or o monthly chart is broken, then it 45
in a vory woak position because lt is so far above tho half-wey point on its
price movemont, alroady having squared out the timo poried with price.

Woakmess in ao stock dovelops when 1% breaks the 3/4-point, tho 2/S-point,
tho 1/2-point, otc., but the position on the timing onglos from tho bottom tells
you still more about the weak position. A stock shows its first woalnoss whon
it breaks the first importont angle coming up from the last bottom in the final
run im a bull markot.

WHEN A STOCK IS IN THE STRONGEST POSITION;

A stock is always in tho strongest position coming up from a bottom when
it is holding above the vary acute angles on the daily, wookly or monthly charts,
especially on monthly and weekly charts.

As long os a stock holds above the angle of 2x 1 (a gain of 2 points per
day) on the deily chart, it is in a very strong positien os far os the bottom is
concerned, In fact, it is always in o strong position on tho daily as long Gs
it holds above the 45° ongle. The somo applies to weekly and monthly charts,
which arc the most importent trond indicators.

I have found that the stocks which have the biggest advences are these thet
always hold sbove the angle of 2 x 1 on the monthly chart or gain 2 points per
month for a leng period of time. JI have seen stocks rest 10 or 15 times on tho
angle of 2 x 1 and never brenk it until they have advoneed 100 points or more,
In this way a stock stays ahoad of time and steys within the square of time by
boing far above the omple of 45°, ond therefore is in a very strong position.
But the time must come when the cycle has run out and the main trend begins to
change from a bull market to og bear market—-then the breaking of the angle frem
the last bottom shows a change in trend.

‘nother indication that o stock is in a strong. position is when it advences
and moves up above the helf-way point of the previous price movemeut ond then
holds the half-way point, that is, advances above it and then reicts and fils
to bronk under it. This is just the same as resting on o 45° angle ond indi-
cutos o very strong position.

STRONGEST BUYING AND SELLING POINTS:

The cinch buying point is when a stock rests on a 45° ongle, placing a stop
loss order below it.

fmother point to buy is on the half-way point of the price movement, placing
a stop loss order under the half-wey point.

When the main trond is up, it is alse safo to buy when o stock roncts to tho
angle of 2 x 1 (a goin of 2 points per time period) on tha waokly or monthly
chert,

REGAINING ANGLES OR CROSSING LINES:

Remember, when any stock breaks under the 45° angle from the extreme low
point ef « move on the daily, woekly or monthly chart, it is then in a very weal
position ond indicates un docline to the naxt angle. However, when « stock can

--- PAGE 24 of 34 ---

[OCR] Gh-23
regain the 45° angle, it is in a stronger position.

Tho same rule applies te o 45° ongle drmm up from ony top. Whon a stook
erosses the ongle on the daily, weekly cr monthly end stays above tho 45° angle
er any other angle to the left of tha 45° onglo, it is in a very strong position,

After a stock once drops below or gots above any important anglo ond then

roevorsos its position by gotting back above the ongle or dropping back bolow it,
it changes the trend again,

WHEN A STOCK IS ITN STRONG POSITION FROM BOTTOM AND IN WEaK POSITION FROM TOP:

A stock ig in a strong position from the bottom when it is kKeoping above the
angle of 48° or the angle of 2x 1, byt at the same time it con be in o weak
position when it rallies wp ond strikes agninst a 45° ongle cr the angle of 2x1
coming dewn from the top— then it is a short sale until it can cross these angles

or cross provious tops. When it broaks the omgles from the bottom, it is in a
weak position and indicatos lower,

A stock can be in a strong position. from the tep and in a weak position from
the bottom, thet is, it mey cross some important ongles from the top after a
long period of time, but at tha same time may break wader the 2x 1 englo or 45°
engle from the bottom, which would indicate that it is in a weak position and
getting ready to go lower.

WHEN ANGLES FROM DCXTREME TCP ARE CROSSED:

The 45° mmgile draw from the extreme high point of a steck is most important
ond whon it is crossed, a major move may be expected, For example;

On the weekly chart of the Dow—Jones Industrial Averages, note the 45° angle
moving dowm from 386, the high of September 3, 1929. Jomnary 12, 1935 wos 279
wooks fromthe 1929 top. Talcing 279 from 366, wo got 107, the price at which the
ongle of 45° would cross. Those Averages advanced to 106k in the week onding
Jonuery 12, 1955-—- thon rooctod ¢o 100 in the wook onding Fobruary 9. This was
the first time thet they had held within one-half point of this ongle and the
first time that they had over reached it sinca the top was made, During tho
woek ending Februcry 16, 1935, tho Averages crossed tho 45° angle at 103 for the
first time, and during the woek ending Februory 23, 1935 advanced to 108, whore
thoy hit the onglo of 45° moving up from the low of Baa in September, 1954, ond
also hit the anglo of 2 x 1 coming up from the low of duly 8, 1932. Theis was a
strong resistance point ond the Averages reacted to 96 in the week onding March
18, 1935, whore they rested on the 45° anglo from the 1929 top and also where the
3 xl uglo (a gain of 1/5 point por woek) from Septomber, 1929 coming up from
"0" crossod tho anglo of 45° coming dam from the 1929 top. This was ce strong
support point for a change in trend. ‘Tho advanco started and tho Aversgos moved
up to now high lovals. This proves tha importance of angles, especinily tho 45°
angla drown from any extreme top, and the point at which any other ongle crosses
tha 45° onglo.

Watch the 45° ongle from 1929 top when it reaches “oO” or when it is 386 woeks
down from the top, This will be in tho latter part of January, 1937. Note what
heppens at thet time,

ANGLES FOR SEMI-/REKLY CHART

Tho semi-wockly chort is a greet help et tha ond of extremo advances or

--- PAGE 25 of 34 ---

[OCR] extremes declines. By applying all of the rules and using the geometrical angles
from tops and bottoms on the semi-weekly chart, you will often get an indication
of a change in trend two to three days before a change in trend is shown on the

weekly chart.

4A change in trend on the semi-weekly chart is of greater importance than a
change in trend on the daily chart, It is much better to rely upon this chart
than on the daily chart when markets are in a narrow trading range.

ANGLES FOR NEW LISTED STOCKS

Years of experience and research, which has cost me a large amount of money
have enabled me to develop a methed that will account for a1] market movements
and give rules to determine the trend from any top or bottom.

It is important to know how to determine the trend when a stock is first
listed on any exchange. When a stock has never fluctuated before, we have no top
or bottom to draw angles from, Therefore, in order to determine the trend, we
use the square of 90, which is 90 up and 90 across, and put all the natural angles
on, like the Pattern Chart. As we have szid before, the square of 90 is very
important because it is one-quarter af a circle of 360°, and as 90° or the ver-
tical angle is the greatest angle that can be used, all of the other angles are
found between "0" and "90",

If a new stock opens at 18 or any point below 224, then you could make out a
Square of 224 to determine the position of the stock on angles. [f the stock
opened at 36 or any point between 224 and 45, you could make up a square of 45.
If it opened at 50 or between 45 and 67, you could make up a square of 675. How-
ever, you could place any stock opening at any price below 90 in the square of
90 and get its proper position and strength or weakness on angles. If the stock
opened at 100 or above 90 and under 135, you could make up a square of 135, or
could make another square of $0 numbering from 30 to 180.

You could start a monthly chart on a square of 90 at the price where the
Stock opens or trading begins, as shown on U. 8. Steel. (Refer to Special Analy-
sis of U. 5, Steel,} After the stock breaks any of these natural angles drawn
from "O", it is just the same as breaking under an angle drawn from a bottom.
When it crosses any of the angles drawn down from "90", it is just the same as
crossing an angle from a top, as you can see by experimenting with U. S. Steel
or any other stock, but always consider price resistance levels and how much the
stock is up or down from the bottom or top. You can determine the first change in
trend by the d-day or semi-weekly Chart, daily chart, and weekly chart by bringing
up the important Geometrical Angles from any higher or lower bottom as the market
movements develop.

-—SUICK CALCULATION OF ANGLES

It is not necessary to draw these angles from a point a long way back.
You can make the calculation and determine where they cross. For example: Sup-
pose in 1900, in the month of January, a stock made bottom at 15, and we wish to
calculate where the 45° angle will cross 10 years later in January, 1910. The
48° angle rises at the rate of one point per month- then IO years would be 120
points or months-- add this Lo 15 at the bottom-- then the 45° angle would eress
at 135 in January, 1910. All of the other angles may be calculated a long period
back in the same way.

--- PAGE 26 of 34 ---

[OCR] ANGLES SELDOM USED

S x 2 ANGLE: This onglo of % x 2 on the lof sido of the 45° angle risos at the
rate of 8 points in 12 months, <A stock must show a goin of
3/4—point per month in order te koop above this angle. This ongle can be used
whon other importont anglos from the bottom have sproad fer apart, as it will
show the position and rosistance or support point betwoon the other ongles.

LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE

On all charts<-daily, weekly or mont thly—-the prica must move up or down on
the vertical angles. Thorofore, the prico movement is tho same as letitudo. You
should begin with zoro or "0" on ony chart--daily, weekly or monthhy--cnd drew tho
important onglos ond rosistoneo levels across, which measure Lotituda.

Noxt, numbor the timo points in days, weaks or months BOTOSS,, and drew tha
horizontal angio at ocgh importont naturel oglo, such as, 114, 225 , S32, 45,
564 +, 67s, Taz, 90, 1013 112d, 120, ote, Thon you will know whon price roeuchos
these importart onglos ” and mésts resistonco.,

Longitude moasuras tha time running noroess the chart, as it moves over ooch
day, wook or month, Thoreferc, you must koop your chart numbered from each
importent top ond bottom in order to got the time mo oguromonts aso. ere, to
eglos. Those important anglos, such os, 14, 22h, 33%, 45, 56%, 60, 67S, TBH,
$0, ote. from onch bottom ond top will show you whore tha strongost rosistens coe
in prico tnd time takes placo. Thoso angles prova the parallel or crossing point.
Study past records snd see what has happened when prises on monthly charts reached
these important ongles or time periods.

For example, 90 poipts-up in price from "0" we drew am angle horizonelly
across the chart, Then 90 days, weeks or months, going to the right neross the
shart, wo draw a vortdieg] cngle up, which will cross the horizontal engle at 90
end prove the square, By keoping oll these ongles up ond understanding them on
your charts, you will know when impertont time cycles are running out.

Tf the price of & stock at 60 comes out on the 60th day, week or month, it
will meet strong resistonce becouse it has resched the square of price with Time,
it is ot the same lntitude or price end ths same longitude or time period. You
con alwnys put the squore of 90 om 9 chert=<-sither daily, weekly or monthly—-snd
use the naturel ongles, but I advise only using this on the weekly ond monthly.
You cen begin this square of 90 from any bottom or top, thet is, going up 90
points, or from the naturni points, which are 90, 155, 160, but you must not fail
tO square the extrome low and high prica as well as the second ond third lower
tops and higher bottoms with Time.

RULE FOR KEEPING TIME PERIODS ON CHARTS

it is very important that you keep tho time parieds on all of your charts,
carrying them ceross from the bottom and top of each important move in order to
check up end know thot you have your angles or moving-nverages at the correct
point ond te see where major ond miner sycles indismts chonges in trend.

TIME PERIODS FROM BOTTOMS: “hen a stecsk makes bottom one month ond then the
following month makes a higher bottom and a higher

top, or anyey, after it makes a higher bettom and rellies for one month or more,

you con stort numbering from thet bottom, The month that it makes the low be-

--- PAGE 27 of 34 ---

[OCR] longs to the old or dewnward movement and is the last move down. You count tho
first month up as ong and then number acrogs on the L/t-inch squares, running
them across, adding four each time.

For exemple: If 2 stock has made bottem and advenced 50 points, you look
down at the bottom of the chart and find that you are on the 25¢h menth- then the
angle of 2x 1, moving up 2 points per month, would cross at 50, while the 45°
angle, moving up one point per month, would be at 25, and if the stock broke back
under 50 the following month, it would be falling weer the angle of 2 x 1 ond
indicate a further decline. Now, if you had an error on the chart in tha timing
or numbering across from the bottom, then the moving-average line or angle would
not come out correctly.

TINE PERIODS FROM TOFS:

After a steck has advemeed ond made on extreme high and reacted for a few
days, a fewweeks, or a few months, end you start putting on the ongles from ths
top down, you must then begin to number the time periods across from the top.
Apply the sama rula for the top: ‘Tho month, waok or day thot a stock makes ox-
treme high finishes the upward movement und is not to be counted. You can coun
the number of days, weeks or months moving scross after that, allowing the top
month to be "O", the next month, week or day over to be "1", adding 4 across on
the aquares to gat the correct position. If this Time Period is carried across
on all the charts correctly, then you can always check up and find owt if you
have made any mistake iu bringing down the engles or moving-everage lines.

For example; After oa stock has declined 75 points, either on a weekly or
monthly chart, the angles move dowm the same, except where the spacing is dif-
ferent. Assuming that the spusing is one pointwr oue-sighth inch, after it hos
moyed down 75 points and all the angles are dravm down from the top, there may be
om error in the angle of 2 x 1 because your ruler may have slipped and you may
not have placed it correetly ofter it is dom a distoncs from the top. New, in
order to prove exactly where the angle of 2 x 1 comes out, you determine the
number of time periods there are. If 40 doys, weoks or months have beon required
to decline the 75 points, the angle of 2 x 1 moving dowm 2 points per unit of
time, would be down #0 from the top. If you find that this angle does not cross
ot 80, than you knew that you made an error and should correct it.

This is a simple way to always kmow when the angles or moving-linas ere
correct because you simply add the movement to ths bottem and subtract it from
the top. Sunpose the price referred to above, when the stook has declined 75
points, was 150, then subtracting §0 from the top st 150, the angle would cross
at 70, ond the price of tha steck down 75 points would be at 75, therefore it
would be above the angle of 2x ] from the top and in position for a rally if
the time cycle indicoted it.

POINTS FROM WHICH TO NUMBER TIME PERIODS

The most important peint on the monthly high ond low chart to carry the
time period from is from the extrema low of the life of a stock and also from
the dete of incorporstion or from the date trading in thea stock began on the
New York Stock Exchange. From tho oxtreme low point the time period should al-
ways be corried asross on the chart just the samo as the important angles should
be continued right along fer years,

The next important point to number from is a seeond or third higher bottom,

--- PAGE 28 of 34 ---

[OCR] but you should not consider a bottom established until the market has held up or
advanced three to four months, Lhen commence numbering from that botLom if dy
appears Lo be important. For example:

U, S. STEEL was incorporated February 25, 1901, Numbering the months across

you will note that February, 1931, was 360 months, or 30 years, from
the date of incorporation. Then start a new cycle and begin mumbering across
from “O", This will be working out the second cycle or circle of 360°,

The next important point is the extreme low of G2 made May 14, 1904. On
the monthly chart carry the numbers acress from this bottom, because it is the
lowest bottom and therefore the most important. Note this 30-year cycle or
360 months ended May, 1934.

The next important point to number from and draw the angles from, is the low
of 2147 in Geveber, 1907, the first higher bottom. Then, the next important is
the third higher bottom made in February, 1915. Always draw the angles and num-
ber the months across from any other important bottoms where campaigns start.

Use this samé rule at tops. After top is reached and the trend turns down,
then carry the time numbers across from the top, but after any top is crossed
or bottom is broken that you are numbering from, then do not count that top or
Bottom of importance to number from; except to determine a time per Lod an another
cycle 3, 5, 7, 10 or 20 years ahead. Tops that stay for a long time without be-
ing crossed are always the most important to carry the Time Periods from. The
extreme high reached by a stock is always most impertant until that high is
erossed- then the next high point made on a secondary rally, which is always a
lower top, is the next most important top to number from. For example:

On U. S. Steél you would carry the monthly measurement across first from
the high in April 1901- then from the extreme high in October, 1909, and next
from the high in May, 1917- then from the final high in September, 1929, being
the mest important to measure from, and also number from the April, 1930 wep.

ANDUSTRIAL AVERAGES: The Dow-Jones 30 Industrial Averages reached extreme high

on September 3, 1929-- then declined sharply in the panic,
reaching low in November 1929-- from this low there was a really to April, 1930,
which was Lhe ladt high and very important to number from because it was a
secondary top, the last rally in a bull market. After final low of the bear
Market was reached on July 8, 1932, a sharp rally followed to September, 1932,
when Lop was reached-- then a slow decline followed, reaching bottom in late
February and early 1933, making this a secondary higher bettem, from which
stocks advanced to new high levels. The bottom in 1932 is the most important to
number from and the next bottom of March, 1933 is next in importance.

Apply this same rule to weekly and daily bottoms and tops. Discontinue the
time periods when any miner top or bottom is exceeded and carry only the main

figures on time periods from important tops and bottoms as long as they remain
unbroken,

The rule fer discontinuing the use of tops and bottoms for Time Periods is:
When a bottom or top ls exceeded by Lhree points, then discontinue the time period
from that bottom or top,

Always note the number of months between extreme high and between extreme
low points and note what angle the tops and bottoms come out on,

--- PAGE 29 of 34 ---

[OCR] CLT im i HHH

: HHH PEPE

i fl i a
tit tyi iy
Lil =
rer i

I LLI™ T +

rer rho He

im rit |

i yitt eri | Fa!

PEE i
ee Se

Fe Sep ae

iz 2 es ee | co

[ee | : _\_t

1 Ji 1 f i= i_|_}

Core rl in nm! ml f
ritit tli i rt
po Heer eye

oa i Gs ae +

mee etiececmaitrtaae itt

TAT Z

a ee i 7

PEREE CHEE” AUTRES sence

COPE Reeser HH

EEE RE EEAHEEE-EHEH CLot

cl Lit am Ji} 2 .

+ 1 ro HOC an

CPrrprrry | a itt

ee es Fg rt

Li Li ' e 1

aoe ‘ i SO |

ee See ee i : ———

evesesecmes era ene rE

Ce eee “-FERPEE

Ce tt HH

ERE PEERS

--- PAGE 30 of 34 ---

[OCR] SQUARING THE PRICE RANGE WITH TIME

This is one of the most important and valuable discoveries that I have ever
made, aml if you stick strictly to the rule, ard always watch a stock when Price
is squared by Time, or when Time and Price come together, you will be able ta
forecast the important changes in trend with greater accuracy.

The squaring of Price with Time means as equal number of points up or down
balancing an equal number of time periods--either days, weeks or months. For
example: If a stock has advanced 24 points in 24 days, then moving the 45°
angle or moving-average-line up at the rate of one point per day, the timing
line or time period and the price of whe stock are at the same level and the
stock ig resting on a 45° angle and you should wateh for an important change in
trend at this point. If a stock is to continue uptrend and remain in a strong
position, it must continue to advance and keep above the angle of 45°, If it
breaks back under this angle, then it is out of its square on the bear side of
the 45° angle and in a weaker position, When you are squaring out Time on a
daily chart, look at the weekly high and low chart and monthly high and low chart
and see if the stock is in 4 strong position and has yet to run out the time
periods, because on a daily chart it has to react and then recover a position,
squaring its price many times, as long as the weekly and monthly point up.

Markel corrections or reactions are simply the squaring out of minor time periods
and later the big declines or big advances are the squaring out of major tine
periods.

SQUARING THE RANGE: Refer ta Form #12, where a range of 12 points is shawn
from 46 low to 60 high. Now, suppose a stock remains for
several weeks or several months, moving up or down, in this range, never getting
more than 12 paints up from the bottom and not breaking the bottom: We start
the 45° angle from the bottom of 48 and move it up toe the top of the range to
60, then when we see the stock is holding this range and not going higher, we
move the 45° angle back to the bottom; then back to the top of the range again,
moving it up or down ever this range until the stock breaks out into new low
levele or new high levels. You will find that every time the 459 angle reaches
the top of this range or the boltom of this range, there is some important change
in trend of the stock.

_You can also use the angles of 2x 1 to the right of the 459 angle and the
2 ito the left as they again divide the Time Period inte two equal parts and
are of some value,

If a stock finally moves out of this range on the up side, then the angles
would begin at the new and higher bottom and move up, but from the point where
the stock went into new high, or from any important bottam made while it was in
the range, especially the last bottom that it made, which would be most important,
you should then begin an angle at that boLtom and continue on up again; watch
when this angle is broken or when Time is squared out again with Price,
which would be important for another change in trend, either major or minor.

--- PAGE 31 of 34 ---

[OCR] THREE WAYS TO SQUARE. TIME AND PRICE:

We con square the Ranga, that is, tho number of points from oxtrema low to

extrome high, with Timo- thon square tho oxtromo Low point with Timo- und aquare

the
and

1-

extrema high point with Tims, When the market passes out of these squares
brdaks important angles, the trend changes up er down,

The range thet a stock makes between extreme high and extreme low can be
squered so long as it remains in the same price range. If the range is 25
points, it squares with 25 periodsof Time-- days, weeks or months. Continue
to use this time period as long os it stays in the same range.

SQUARING TIME WITH BOTTOM OR EXTREME LOW PRICE:

The next important Price to square with Time is the lowest price or bottom
of any important decline. For exemple: If the bottom of « stock is 25, then
at the end of 25 days, 25 weeks or 25 months, Time and Price are equal. Then
watch for ea change in trend as based on its bottom or lowest selling price.
As long as a steck coubinues to hold one bottom and advances, you can always
use this timo period rumning across ond continuing the tima period, noting
avery time it passes out of the squares, Watch especially when the stock
reaches the third square, the fourth square, ond agein the soventh and ninth
squares of its time period. These squares only oocur frequently on the daily
or weekly charts, as the monthly, in most cases, would move out of a range,
up or down, before it squared a bottom as mony as 7 or 9 times, However,
this does sometimes happen when a stock is im a narrow range for many years,

SQUARING TIME WITH TOP OR EXTREME HIGH PRICE:

The other important point to square Time with is the extreme high price of e
stock. The Time period must be carriad across from the high of the daily,
weakly or monthly, and the square of the top price in Time must be noted

and watched for a change in trend. If the top of a stock is 50, then when
it has moved over 50 duys, S50 weeks or 50 months, it has reuched ite square
in Time end on impertent chenge is indicated. This can be determined by the
position of the angles from top and bottom, For example:

Dew-Jones Industrial Avereges— The high of 386 on September 3, 1929 would
require 386 calendar days te eguel the Price in Time, This occurred on
September 23, 1930. Look wt the chart and note how the trend changed and
turned down around thet time. Then, on Ostober 14, 1941, it rvum out this
period ogecin- and again November 4, 1932, November 25, 1935, Dacembor 16,
i934, ond January G, 1955, Look up these dates end you will see that
important chonges in trend occurred on the Daily Chart when this time period
of 366 days bulonced the price of 386,

Both major and minor tops and bottoms on all time periods must be watched as
they square out right along, Most important of all is the extreme high

point on the monthly high ond lew chart. ‘his may be very high ond work out
a long time poriod before it squeres the top, in which case you have to
divide the price inte 8 equal time periods and watch the most imnortant
points, like 1/4, 1/4, 1/2, $/%, bub most importent of all is when Timo equals
Price,

When you ara watching the position of a stock after i: hos squared out from

a bottom or a top, always look up the time peried and the oanglos from the op-
posite direction, If the market is nearing a low point, squaring out n top, seo
how its raloticn is to the bottom as it might ba in the second or third square

--- PAGE 32 of 34 ---

[OCR] WA-~oU
period from the bottom, which would be & double indication for a change in trend.

SQUARING WEEKLY TIME PERIODS:

The year contains 52 weeks and the square of this in Time and Price is 52
by 52. Therefore you can make up &@ square of S52 wide and 52 high; put on all
of the angles from "0"; then chart the weekly high and low prices of any stock
in this square, For example: If the low price of a stock is 50; then the Lop
of this weekly square would be 52 added to 50, which makes 102 as top of the
square. As long as the stock stays above 50 and moves up, it will be working
in the weekly square of 52. On the other hand, if the stock makes top and works
down, you would make up a weekly square 52 points down from the top and 52 over
tbo get the time period,

You can take the past movement of any stock, Put on a square of 52 by 52,
and study the movement, noting 13 weeks or one-fourth, 26 weeks or one-half, and
29 weeks or three-fourths points on time, and the changes in trend which take
place when the stock reaches these important Resistance Points in Time and Price.
You would watch for a change in trend around these time per ieds.

SQUARING MONTHLY TIME PRRIONS:

At the time a stock breaks a 45° angle, if it is selling at 135 on the
135th month, it is breaking a doubly strong Resistance Level-- a strong angle
and a natural Resistance Level. This would.be Time and Space balancing at
Resistance Levels or geometrical angles and would indicate a big decline to fol-
low. ~ Reverse this rule at the end of a bear campaign.

On a monthly chart twelve months completes a year, therefore the square of
12 is very importarit for working oul time periods on the monthly chart. The
square of 12 is 144 and important changes often occur on even 12 months! periods
froma bovtom or top of a stock. It will help you if you use the Resistance ,
Levels on prices of the even 12's, noting 24, 36, 48, 60. 72, &4, 96, 1O8, etc,
Watch how the stock acts on angles when it reaches these important Resistance
points in Price,

PRICE AHEAD OF TIME

Why do stocks often cross the 45° angle on the daily, weekly or monthly
chart, then have an advance for a short period of time, decline and rest on the
same 45° angle? Because when the stock crosses the 45° angle the first time, it
has no} run oyt or evercome the square of Time with Price, Therefore, on the
secondary reaction, when dt rests on the 45° angle, it is at a time when the

stock has reached the square of distance in Time. After that a greater advance
follows,

Reyerse this rule at the top of a bull market, When a stock breaks under
the 45° angle 2 long'distance from the base or bottom, it is most important,
Many times a stock will rest on the 45° angle in the carly stages of an advance,
then later, on a reacbion, rest on it again; then have a prolonged advanee, re—
act and rest on the 45° again, and then advance to a higher level; then break
the 45° angle the next time, which places it im an extremely weak position be-
cause it is so far away from the base and sa much time has elapsed since the
stock made low. Don't forget--It is most. important when angles are broken on
she monthly and weekly charts,

--- PAGE 33 of 34 ---

[OCR] This accounts for stecks that have a sharp, quick decline frem tho top ond
Shen odvonce and malo o slightly highor tov or a sorias of slightly lowor tops,
end work over until they overcome tho squaro of the prico range ot conparctive—
ly high lovel end break tho 45° ongio, thon a fast decline follows.

STRONGEST ANGLES FOR MEASUHING TIME AND PRICE

90° ANGLE: Why is the 90 degrco smgla the strongest angle of o117 Because it
is vortical or straight up and straight down.

180° ANGLE: What is the next strongest mglo to tho 90° emgio? Tho 180° anglo
becnuso it is square to the 80° anglo, boing 90° from the 90° cnglo.

270° ANGLE: Whot is tho noxt strongest englo ta tho 180° anglo? The 270° engle
because it is im opposition te 90, or 180° from tho 90° anglo, which
equals 1/2 of the cirelo, tho strongest point. 270 months equals
22% yoars, which is 1/2 of 45,

360° ANGLE; What is the next strongost englo after 2702 It is 560°, becmusc it
onda the cirele and gots back to the boginning point ond is opposito
180° or tho half-way point, or tho angle which cquals 1/2 of the
eirclo,

1209 AND 240° Whot onglos sre noxt strongest to 90, 180, 270, and 360°?
ENGLES fmswor: 120° end 2409 angles, because they are 1/3 and 2/3 of tha
oirole, 120° is 90 plus 30, which is 1/3 of 90. 240 ic 180 plus
1/3 or 60, which makes these strong angles, especially strong for
measurements of time.

45° ~ 135° — 225° — 315°: What angles are next in strength?

—_ imswor: 48° angle, because it is 1/2 of 90,
155° angle, because it is 90 plus 45,
225° angle, because it is 4 plus 180; end
SL5° angle, because it is 45 from 270.
The angle of 225° is 180 from 45 and the
ongle of 515° is 180 from 155.

CARDINAL & fhe angles of 90, 180, 270, and 360 form the first important cross,

FIXED choss: \mowm as the Cardinal Cress, The angles of 48, 135, 225, and 515
for the next importent cross, which is kmown as the Fixed Cross.
These ongles are very importont for the measurements of tima and
space or price, and volume,

zee° - 67h° - 76R°; Why is tho onglo of 224° atronger than 113°? Because it is
tivwice as much, being the same reason that a 45° engle is
stronger thon 2 223° ongle. Agein, the ongle of 672° is
lé times 45, therefore quite strong when anything is moving
up toward 90°, Tage is stronger than B7R°, becouse it is
7/8 of 90, ond therefore ono of the strongest points bafore
90 is rouchod—-important te webeh both on timo, price, ond
volume, Meany stocks have important moves nnd make Lops or
bottoms mround the 7Téth to 80th day, woek or month, but
dontt ovarlook 84 months or 7 yoars, a strong time cycle.

DIVISION OF $1: Why ore the ongles of 1/8 of a circle most important for time
1/8-POINTS end space measurement? Becausa we divide $1 into LA, 1/4, ond

--- PAGE 34 of 34 ---

[OCR] 1/8 purty. We veo 26 conta or ong quartor, GO canto or half dollar, ond Long,
yonrs age wo hod 128 cant plioces, Whilo the most importent figures of our basis
ef money are the four quarters, wo do use the 1/8 port or lZ% comnts in oll eai-
culations, Stock fluctuations ure based on 1/8, 1/4, 3/6, 1/2,.5/8, 3/4, 7/6
wad the whole figure, ‘Therefore, my price modsuremont os well as time will werk
out closer to these figures when chenged into angles of tame than 1/3 or 2/3
points, for the simple reason thet the fluctuations moving in 1/8 proportion must
come aut closer to thase Tigures.

Figuring $100, or por, as a basis for steck prises and changing those prices
te degrees, 122 oqunls 48°, 25 equels 90°, 374 equals 135°, 50 equals 160°, 62%
equals 225°, 75 oquals 270°, BRE equals 315°, ond 100 aquals 360%. For exnmpla:

Whon ao stock selis at 60 on the 180th day, wook or month, it is on the do=
groq of its timo melo,

On February 1, 1915, U. S. Steel made o low at 38, which is closest to ao
prico of S74, which is 3/8 of 100 ond equals 1357 anglo, Stocl wes 14
years or 168 months old on February 25, 1915, and hit the ongle of 135°,
whieh showed that Steel was behind time, but that it was in « strong
position, holding at 38 above the 135° angle or the price of 37s.

When Steel roachod 200, it equalled 2 circles of 360°, hon it advanced

to 2612, it was closest to 624 in the third 100 or nearest the 225° angle
or 8/8 point, which is the strongest angle aftor it corossod the half—wey

point ot 250 or 160° angie.

Novemboar, 1855

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: pdfcoffee.com-plummer-tony-the-law-of-vibration_compressed.pdf
Total Pages: 225
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER

> i .

THE LAW OF
VIBRATION

WILLIAMD, GANN

=

--- PAGE 2 of 225 ---

[OCR] The Law of Vibration

The Revelation of
William D. Gann

Tony Plummer

--- PAGE 3 of 225 ---

[OCR] HARRIMAN HOUSE LTD

3A Penns Road
Petersfield
Hampshire
GU32 2EW
GREAT BRITAIN

Tel: +44 (0)1730 233870

Email: enquiries@harriman-house.com
Website: www.harriman-house.com

First edition published in Great Britain in 2013
Copyright © Tony Plummer

The right of Tony Plummer to be identified as the author has been asserted in accordance with the
Copyright, Design and Patents Act 1988.

978-0-85719-259-2
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data

ACIP catalogue record for this book can be obtained from the British Library.

Alll rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or
‘otherwise without the prior written permission of the Publisher. This book may not be lent, resold,
hired out or otherwise disposed of by way of trade in any form of binding or cover other than that
in which it is published without the prior written consent of the Publisher.

Printed in the UK by Lightning Source.
No responsibility for loss occasioned to any person or corporate body acting or refraining to act as

a result of reading material in this book can be accepted by the Publisher, by the Author, or by the
employer of the Author.

Harriman House

--- PAGE 4 of 225 ---

[OCR] For the global community of
independently-minded technical
analysts and economists

--- PAGE 5 of 225 ---

[OCR] Contents

About the author

Acknowledgements

Preface

Introduction

Chapter 1: The Enigma of William D. Gann

Chapter 2: The Golden Ratio and the Christian Scriptures
Chapter 3: The Law of Three

Chapter 4: The Sign of the Prophet Jonas

Chapter 5: The Son of Man in the Heart of the Earth
Chapter 6: The Structure of the Musical Octave

Chapter 7: The Law of Seven

Chapter 8: The Octave and the Enneagram

Chapter 9: The Enneagram and Financial Markets
Chapter 10: William D. Gann and the Law of Vibration
Chapter 11: George I. Gurdjieff and the Law of Vibration
Chapter 12: St. Matthew's Gospel and the Law of Vibration
Chapter 13: A Universal Pattern of Vibration

Chapter 14: Inner Octave Cycles

Chapter 15: The Law of Vibration in Practice

Chapter 16: The Final Word

Appendices

Appendix 1: Numerical Equivalents of New Testament Greek Letters

vii

vii

xi

11
19
25
41
53
59
67
81
93
103
115
127
147
159
175

179

--- PAGE 6 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Appendix 2: St. Matthew’s Gospel, Chapter 12, Verses 38-40, Greek Text 181

Appendix 3: The Vesica Piscis and Time 183
Appendix 4: The Structure of William Gann’s Thnnel Thru the Air 185
Appendix 5: The Structure of George Gurdjieft’s Beelzebub’s Tales 187
Appendix 6: The Structure of the First 28 Chapters of Beelzebubs Tales 189
Appendix 7: The 1940-45/46 Inter-Cycle Hiatus 193
Appendix 8: A Note on William Gann's The Magic Word 195
Bibliography 199

Index 203

--- PAGE 7 of 225 ---

[OCR] About the author

Tony Plummer is the director of Helmsman Economics Ltd. He is a former
director of Hambros Bank Ltd, of Hambros Fund Management PLC, and of
Rhombus Research Ltd. He is a Fellow of the Society of Technical Analysts in
the UK and was, until November 2011, a Visiting Professorial Fellow in the
Department of Economics at Queen Mary, University of London. He is the
author of Forecasting Financial Markets, which describes the influence of crowd
psychology on economic activity and financial market price behaviour.

Tony has worked and traded in financial markets since 1976, concentrating
primarily on bonds and currencies. He now specialises in long-term economic
and financial market analysis, and writes and lectures on group behaviour and
trading competencies.

He has a Masters degree in economics from the London School of Economics and
an Honours degree in economics from the University of Kent. He has had four years
of training in Core Process Psychotherapy and is a qualified NLP practitioner.

Acknowledgements

My thanks go very specifically to: first, my wife Glenys who has made so much
possible; second, my former Executive Director and mentor at Hambros Bank
Ltd, David Tapper, without whom my deep interest in financial markets would
never have been catalysed; and, third, my clients at Helmsman Economics Ltd,
whose desire to stay one step ahead of the consensus has persistently energised
my research into the patterns of collective human behaviour.

vii

--- PAGE 8 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 9 of 225 ---

[OCR] Preface

T have for many years been fascinated by the hidden aspects of Nature: by the
order underlying the apparent chaos; by the limited set of mathematical ratios
that appear to reflect that order; and by our personal involvement in that order.
It is my strong belief that individual decisions are almost always contaminated
by collective beliefs and shared moods, and that therefore we have far less control
over our affairs than is supposed. The result, however, is a form of systemic
coherence that is not yet accepted by conventional economic theory.

This book is about a critical aspect of this systemic coherence. It is about a very
distinctive pattern that emerges in the presence of natural cyclical behaviour.
Astonishingly, the pattern was hidden almost 2000 years ago in a small piece of
text in the Greek version of the Christian Gospel of St. Matthew. The pattern
was unearthed, and then buried again, by the famous financial market speculator
William D. Gann. And the same pattern was alluded to, but also hidden, by
the great mindfulness exponent George I. Gurdjieff. The lineage of the cycle
pattern suggests that it represents a genuine revelation. It has taken me more
than 20 years to unravel the code that has hidden this revelation, and I feel very
privileged to have been able to do it.

This book, then, is about a law of vibration that is alleged to permeate the
cosmos. There is strong evidence that this law influences financial market
fluctuations and economic cycles. But the exciting possibility is that signs of the
law of vibration can be found in a whole range of research disciplines — from
cosmology at one end to quantum physics at the other. It may be that William
Gann was an important link in a chain of transmission that — at a minimum —
can be dated back almost two millennia.

--- PAGE 10 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 11 of 225 ---

[OCR] Introduction

THE ROLE OF SHOCKS

It is a great truth that real change only ever comes out of crisis. This is the way
of evolution, which impacts all living organisms, at all levels of being and
understanding. A new item of information — a shock — sends fluctuations deep
into a system and the subsequent feedback becomes increasingly destabilising
until the system flips into a different state. Unfortunately, the crisis is inevitably
painful for all concerned. This is the path of change that involves such diverse
events as wars, revolutions, stock market crashes, mental breakdowns and
physical diseases.

In my opinion, the 2008 financial panic and subsequent recession was just such
a shock. It will undoubtedly lead to changes — both to the economy and in our
understandings about how it operates — for some years to come. We could just
let it all happen, and come out at the other end much older and a little wiser,
but a more productive approach would be to try to understand the real causes of
the problem and then adjust ourselves as quickly as possible. In that way, we
might be slightly less vulnerable to what Shakespeare called “outrageous fortune”.

THE CHALLENGE TO ECONOMIC THEORY

Asa start, it is worth considering why economic theory was not able to anticipate
the events of the last few years — that is, the explosion and collapse in various
asset prices, and the associated economic boom and bust. A large part of the
answer can be found in three areas of debate:

1. The supposedly simplifying assumptions that are used in theoretical
analysis;

2. The re-balancing mechanisms that are thought to operate in an economy;
and

3. The effectiveness or otherwise of government in influencing those
mechanisms.

"William Shakespeare, Hamiler, Act 3, Scene 1.

--- PAGE 12 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

When we make decisions, we have to take account of the fact that the future
may not turn out as we expect. The starting point for economics, therefore, is
to consider exactly how uncertain that future is. The so-called Keynesian (i.e.
fiscalist, and usually socialist) view is that the future is so uncertain — and people
so naturally cautious — that the economy will not spontaneously gravitate
towards full employment equilibrium.’ In addition, it is believed that the
economy is likely to over-respond to negative exogenous shocks.

The neo-classical (i.e. monetarist, and usually conservative) view is that risk can
be quantified in terms of probabilities and therefore priced by the relevant
market.’ Providing that markets are efficient, information is perfect and
participants adhere to rational expectations, the economy will therefore be
drawn towards its natural rate of unemployment. Quite obviously, a believer in
Keynesian subjective uncertainty will conclude that government intervention is
essential, while a believer in neo-classical objective risk will want government
intrusion to be minimal.

SIMPLIFYING ASSUMPTIONS

So who’ right? Unfortunately, as the situation stands, the answer is neither. And
it is not just a question of whether the cynical Keynesian assumption about
people's ability to deal with the future is more sensible than the unrealistic and
unattainable neo-classical one. The fundamental flaw in both arguments is the
presumption that people xormally make their decisions independently of one
another. They do not. Neuroscience confirms that we are Janus-faced: we are
self-assertive, but we also integrate into larger wholes.:

First, we depend on the observed behaviour of others to provide information
that we cannot access directly ourselves.' This modulates, and then offsets, the
subjective uncertainty of Keynesian economics. Second, we absorb, and are
stimulated by, the beliefs and emotions generated by others. This neutralise,
and then destabilises, the objective risk presumed by neo-classical economists.
Dependence on others’ behaviour still allows rational individual decisions, but

"Robert Skidelsky, "The Relevance of Keynes , Cambridge Journal of Economics (anuaty 2011) and John M, Keynes,
“The General Theory of Employment’, Quarterly Journal of Economics (February 1937).

+ John EF. Muth, ‘Rational Expectations and the Theory of Price Movements’, Econometrica (July 1961) and Robert
Lucas, Models of Business Cycles (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1987).

* See, for example, Alexander Easton (Ed.) and Nathan Emery (Ed.), The Cognitive Neuroscience of Social Behaviour
(Psychology Press, London, 2005).

‘The idea of information cascading through a crowd, as a result of individuals responding to local perturbations in
conditions, has become well established in Behavioural Finance. The missing element, however, isa clear recognition
(and acceptance) that human beings are programmed ~ like animals in herds ~ to take note of the behaviour of others.
No individual has all che information necessary for his/her survival. Research by John Dyer has found that it takes
only 5% of people to have a decisive influence on the direction that a crowd of people would take; the rest simply
follow. See John Dyer, etal, Consensus decision making in human crowds,, Animal Behaviour 75:2 (February 2008),

--- PAGE 13 of 225 ---

[OCR] INTRODUCTION

the absorption of others’ beliefs and moods means that these decisions are
nevertheless formed within a non-rational environment.

It follows from this that government spending can be a powerful influence on
individual decisions and on collective beliefs. However, this is not the same as
saying that government is truly an independent agency — let alone a gifted one.
The weakness in interventionist policies is that policy-makers themselves are
affected by the general mood. This has been all too apparent in recent years
where politicians have tried to buy votes by increasing spending during boom
conditions because it can be afforded, only to find themselves having to raise taxes
during difficult times to share the burden. The point is that, unless government
intervention is genuinely contra-cyclical, the feedback between government
activity and collective psychology can be profoundly de-stabilising. Government
activity is a source of potential risk within the economic system.

ENERGY GAPS AND REBALANCING MECHANISMS

The 2008 financial implosion and the associated economic recession arose from
the correlated decisions of people whose mood was influenced by rapidly-rising
government spending and lax credit policies. It was a reaction to excesses and
was not caused by a random, externally-generated, shock. The downswing was,

in fact, an energy gap within the economic system and, as such, it reversed that
system’s polarity from growth to contraction.

I have dealt with this phenomenon in detail elsewhere, but the purpose of such
a gap is to initiate a process that will cleanse the system of excesses. Once the
process starts, it will continue until it is naturally complete. Of course, since
economic theory does not properly recognise the influence of collective
behaviour, nor recognise the adjustment mechanisms created by system excesses,
it cannot define the originating causes or suggest the appropriate solutions (if,
indeed, there are any). And, since economic policy decisions are dependent on
theory, the political result is disbelief, confusion and helplessness.

econom|

This sorry state of affairs exists despite the vast sums of private and public money
that are devoted to research and teaching in the field of economics. New ideas
obviously need to be recognised and adopted so that our understanding of reality
can evolve. In my opinion, one essential change will be to include the concept of
collective behaviour, not just as an occasional blemish on the otherwise smooth
functioning of a rational system, but as a constant influence. And, fortunately,
there are signs that the process of reconsideration and revision has started.

Tony Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets (6th Ed.) (Kogan Page, London, 2010).
See, for example, George A. Akerlof and Robert J. Shiller, Animal Spirits: How Human Psychology Drives the
Economy, and Why it Matter for Global Capitalism (Princeton University Press, 2009).

--- PAGE 14 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

AN ALTERNATIVE VIEW

Nevertheless, it is not certain that making alterations — however necessary — to
the general equilibrium models of economic theory will actually make it any
easier to deal with oscillations in economic activity. The primary reason is that
such changes are unlikely to address the automatic presumption that economic
and financial oscillations are the result either of people making poor decisions
or of unforeseen shocks. So, almost by definition, it is assumed that the resulting
perturbations are errors in the system, which can only be identified and dealt
with after they have materialised.

But what if such assumptions were incorrect? What if fluctuations in economic
activity and financial market prices were essentially a non-random consequence
of collesdve behavidur? And what if aignifidane part of such Auchuations could,
in fact, be anticipated?

The purpose of this book is to demonstrate that this alternative view was
fundamental to the success of one of the greatest stock market traders of all time
— William D. Gann. He believed — and traded upon — the idea that collective
human behaviour exhibits a specific recurring pattern that unfolds through time.
If Mr. Gann’ financial success is a yardstick for genuine wisdom, then economic
theory still has a significant paradigm shift to negotiate.

There are three aspects to the idea of non-random collective behaviour that need
to be registered straightaway. First, it implies that there are forces at work about
which we have very little conception and over which we (therefore) have very
little control. Second, it implies that collective behaviour is not only non-
random but is the outer signature of an inner system process that actively
organises the behaviour of participating individuals.’ And third, it implies that
when individuals lose themselves to group behaviour — i.e. let their psychic
structure be invaded and overrun by group demands’ — their energies are in a
sense sacrificed to group purposes. This deeply disturbing notion helps to
explain the madness of financial market crowds, the blindness of religious and
nationalist fervour, and the destructive power of a rioting mob.

The main point is that the phenomenon of collective behaviour involves two
specific forces: directing people’s energies towards objectives other than their
own; and placing limitations on people's willingness to use their energies for
alternative, non-group, purposes. The result, in effect, is an organism with its
own simplistic psychological process. Moreover, this organism is characterised
by energy fluctuations that are both rhythmic and patterned.

TTony Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets.
"Erich Neumann, Depth Pyychology and a New Ethic (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1990)

--- PAGE 15 of 225 ---

[OCR] INTRODUCTION

OLD AND ANCIENT TEXTS

Mr. Gann was quite explicit in claiming that the foundation of his knowledge
was a small piece of text in one of the Christian Gospels.» The text had been
written by St. Matthew (or by individuals who wrote under that name) and gave
great significance to “the sign of the prophet Jonas”. It seems that Mr. Gann
had deduced that the sign was a reference to a universal law relating to cycles.
My early inference was that, if Mr Gann’s claims were in any sense correct, then
some form of gematria was likely to be involved. Gematria is the technique of
allocating numbers to letters in a text in order to convey extra information, and
it was widely used by writers of ancient scripture to transmit esoteric
understandings. This, in turn, suggested that the appropriate text to be used in
St. Matthew's case was the original Greek version.

This turned out to be the case and, by the mid-1990s, I had found some
extraordinary geometric figures hidden within St. Matthew's text. However, Mr.
Gann’s central claim — that “the sign of the prophet Jonas” specifically provided
a revelation about cycles — continued to elude me. Then, in late 2011, I chanced
upon a research thesis by Sophia Wellbeloved referencing the struggle by the
celebrated mindfulness exponent George I. Gurdjieff to produce a series of
books that would preserve his teachings.” It alerted me to the possibility that St.
Matthew's text may have incorporated a transmission methodology that
extended beyond gematria. And this, amazingly, also turned out to be the case.

The results are literally extra-ordinary. They will be analysed in some detail in
the following chapters in terms of the common themes and transmission
techniques incorporated into three texts: W.D. Gann’s The Tunnel Thru The Air
(hereafter Tinnel), G.I. Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson (hereafter
Beelzebub’ Tales), and St. Matthew's Gospel.

William Delbert Gann died in 1955. He left behind a thought-provoking
combination of very little money in his estate and a reputation of being one of
the greatest stock market traders of all time. George Ivanovitch Gurdjieff died
in 1949. He left behind a reputation for being exploitative and difficult to be
with, but also a unique set of complex and deeply spiritual teachings that have
the power to change people's lives for the better. St. Matthew probably died in
the first century AD. Very little is known about him, but he left behind a record
of the teachings of a man called Joshua ben Joseph, who is now referred to as
Jesus. Those teachings had a profound effect on the course of history.

William D, Gann, The Tunnel Thru The Air (Financial Guardian Publishing, New York, 1927).

"Sophia Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff, Astrology & Beelzebubs Tales (Abintra Books, Aurora (Or.), 2002).

“Gann, Tunnel.

"George I. Gurdjieff, All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man, or Beelzebub’s Tales to
His Grandson (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1950).

“Kurt Aland et al., Greek-English New Testament (Deutsche Bibelgesellschafe, Stuttgart, 1981).

--- PAGE 16 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The thread that links each of these writers in the context of this book is that they
included secret/sacred geometries within the structure of their original written
works.» These hidden geometries point to a fundamental pattern of vibration
that is alleged to pervade the cosmos and that interacts with humanity on a
personal and collective level. Mr. Gann called this pattern the “law of vibration”.

The pattern is said to emerge as a result of discontinuities in the perpetual
processes of expansion and contraction within the cosmos. According to Mr.
Gurdjieff, the discontinuities are a function of the Law of Seven, and the forces
of expansion and contraction are a function of the Law of Three. Amazingly,
and compellingly, the writings of St. Matthew confirm that the pattern was
known about almost 2000 years ago.

TT cannot be emphasised enough that, once the original texts have Been revised and/or translated, the hidden
information becomes inaccessible

xvi

--- PAGE 17 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 1

THE ENIGMA OF
WILLIAM D. GANN

“The Tunnel Thru The Air’ is mysterious and contains a valuable secret,
clothed in a veiled language.”

W. D. Gann

A SECRET TRADING METHODOLOGY

William D. Gann was — by reputation — one of the most successful commodity
and stock traders who ever lived. He operated in the United States during the
early part of the twentieth century, was able to forecast the 1929 Wall Street
Crash,’ and is reputed to have amassed tens of millions of dollars through short-
term speculation.’ He is also reputed to have had access to a unique trading
methodology whose central feature was a secret. He died in 1955, leaving behind
a great deal of confusion as to whether or not he had actually revealed this secret.

It is known — partly through Mr. Gann’s own admission — that the secret
belonged to a hidden order of understanding.’ This fact, more than anything
else, has hampered open-minded research into his techniques: either his work
has been associated with an irreligious view of the world or it has been regarded
as being non-scientific hocus-pocus.

William D. Gann, Supply and Demand Letter: 1929 Annual Stock Forecast (W. D. Gann Scientific Service Inc, New
York, 23 November 1928).

This was at a time when the average annual wage of a non-farm worker was about $1,500. See Stanley Lebergott,
Wages and Working Conditions’, The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (Library of Economics and Liberty,
Indianapolis (In.), 1993).

‘Gann, Tunnel

--- PAGE 18 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

More recently, however, with the questioning of conventional religious beliefs,
and with the growing realisation that the accuracy of scientific research is
dependent on the contextual assumptions that are being used, an increasing
number of people have been prepared to look more closely at Mr. Gann's ideas.
This has probably been particularly easy for financial market traders insofar as
the primary test for truth is profitability rather than religious or scientific nicety.

To date, the most important line of research has been in the area of astrology.
Mr. Gann is known to have been particularly interested in the relationship
between planetary alignments and human psychology, and researchers have —
with some justification — followed his lead. The findings need to be taken
seriously because they confirm that correlations do exist between price
movements and the positions of the planets.» More broadly, there is a growing
body of evidence that correlations exist between mass human psychology and
extra-terrestrial cycles.*

Nevertheless, astrology was not the only element of Mr. Gann'’s trading rules. A
given astrological aspect might constitute a potential turning point, but there is
always a degree of uncertainty as to whether a price reversal will actually occur;
and uncertainty does not appear to be one of Mr. Gann’s characteristics. He
undoubtedly had access to other techniques that supplemented (or even
supplanted) his astrological findings.

THE LAW OF VIBRATION

As anyone who has had contact with his work will know, the dominant (and
unusual) feature of Mr. Gann’s ideas was the use of mathematics and geometry.
What is not clear from the available literature, however, is the actual source of
(or originating authority for) these particular analytical tools. In his early years
of trading, Mr. Gann was quite clear in stating that he had access to special
knowledge. In 1909, he had indicated that he knew a secret law of vibration
In 1927, he further emphasised the point that there was a “hidden secret” that
others could learn.*

Moreover, there was a degree of commitment to his research on the law of
vibration that suggests that it wasn’t just a loosely conceptualised idea. In 1909,
Mr. Gann maintained that he had spent ten years doing exhaustive research,
including “nine months, working night and day in the Astor Library of New

Wid.

In this context, mention needs to be made of the exceptional work done by Bradley F, Cowan. See, for example,
his Pentagonal Time Cycle Theory (Private publication, USA, 2009).

“See especially Richard Tarnas, Cosmos and Psyche: Intimations of a New World View (Plume, New York, 2007).
Interview with William D. Gann, The Ticker and Investment Digest 5:2 (December 1909),

*Gann, Tunnel,

--- PAGE 19 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

York and in the British Museum of London”.» Since Mr. Gann was born in 1878,
this means that he started his research no later than the age of 21. Furthermore,
a journey to London in the early 1900s would have been both time consuming
and expensive.

Given his persistent reference to his knowledge as being secret, it seems probable
that Mr. Gann had access to an understanding about the nature of life that was
different to the understandings held by the contemporaneous religious and
scientific communities.” If this is correct, it does not take a significant leap of
imagination to suppose that the knowledge was genuinely esoteric and that Mr.
Gann was using the ancient science of sacred geometry. This is certainly
consistent with the reverential attitude to spiritual matters that he openly
expressed in his 1950 book, The Magic Word." Even so, there is an important
point about this that is almost always missed. This is that sacred geometry
cannot be applied to a mundane data series without a prior knowledge of the
energetic forces that are driving that series. The analyst has to know what he or
she is looking for. In other words, there is still something missing from extant
knowledge about Mr. Gann's techniques.

It is, therefore, very relevant that two elements are missing from what we know
about Mr. Gann’s knowledge. First, no one has yet revealed, or been able to
explain with any precision, how Mr. Gann’s law of vibration is supposed to
operate in financial markets. Second, as far as | know, nowhere does Mr. Gann
explicitly mention the Golden Measure* or its related number series, the
Fibonacci Sequence." These omissions seem to me to be more significant than
Mr. Gann'’s commission of geometry (and astrology). As this book will argue,
not only do the law of vibration and the Golden Measure co-arise in all natural
phenomena, but both were important parts of Mr. Gann’s understandings about
financial market behaviour. Indeed, he preserved them in a hidden form in his
strange 1927 novel, Tunnel.»

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR

As anyone who has tried to read Tunnel will attest, itis hardly a work of literary
genius in the conventional sense of the word. Indeed, the word dreadful would

"The Ticker and Investment Digest (December 1909)

® Gann, Tunnel. In the story, Robert Gordon — Mr, Gannis alter ego — says that “The general public is not yet ready
for it (ie. the sectet) and probably would not understand or believe it if | explained it.”

"William D. Gann, The Magic Word (Library of Gann Publishing Co, Pomeroy (Wa.), 1950)

©The late Robert Krausz mentioned this in a lecture that he gave at a Computrac conference in 1992, The Golden
Measure is a number (0.618), a ratio (0.618:1) and a continuous proportion between three numbers (0.382, 0.618,
and 1). See Chapters 2 and 3.

"The Fibonacei Sequence is the number series 0, 1, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 95,... ete. where the ratio of each
number divided by its successor tends towards the Golden Ratio, 0.618:1

"Gann, Tunnel

--- PAGE 20 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

bea very charitable appellation. Mr. Gann’s injunction is to read the book three
times: firstly, as an ordinary novel; secondly, to discern some of the hidden
meanings; and thirdly, to find the hidden secret. In other words, the reader has
to look within the text for something far more important than the book's
improbable love and war story.

Throughout most of the book, Mr Gann uses the unusual device of having the
relationship between the hero, Robert Gordon, and his future wife, Marie
Stanton, conducted by the continuous exchange of letters. He also includes —
sometimes within letters, but often separately — extensive quotations from the
Bible, and a number of poems. The first point is that the procedure, in effect,
pads out the story. More specifically, the addition of unnecessary material to a
chapter can be used as a device to control the number of pages in that chapter.
As we shall see, this turns out to be very important.

Second, the interchange of letters themselves may be taken as a metaphor for the
oscillation between the generative and receptive polarities within Nature. This
interpretation is strengthened by the regular intervention in the exchange of letters
by a third party — namely, Mr. Walter Kennelworth. Technically, a third force is
always necessary to balance and direct the exchange between the active (male)
and passive (female) polarities. Indeed, Mr. Gann allows Robert Gordon to state
that “In every law of nature there is... a positive, a negative and a neutral”.

The three forces, taken together, constitute an ancient spiritual law, called the

Law of Three.

The Law of Three

The traditional symbol for the Law of Three was either an equilateral or isosceles
triangle and the traditional mathematical representation of the law was the
Golden Ratio, 0.618:1 or 0.382:0.618. It is therefore relevant that the original
dust jacket of Tinnel contains at least three references to the Law of Three. The
first reference is a tiny equilateral triangle just inside the lower margin (which
contains the infrastructure of a city). The second is an isosceles triangle on the
top of a spire that projects itself out of that lower margin. The important point
is that the positions of both triangles in relation to the width of the book are
then defined by the Golden Ratio: the distance from the left-hand side of the
book is 38.2% of the width of the book for the equilateral triangle and 61.8%

ibid.

“Ieis not my intention to provide a comprehensive analysis of The Tunnel Thru The Air ~ mainly because, for the
purposes of this book, it is not necessary to do so. Nevertheless, this should not be taken to mean that all Mr. Gann’s
secrets are described in what follows.

© Gann, Tunnel. It is the reference to a neutral force that establishes Mr. Gannis credibility. The existence of this
force was largely unknown at the time that Mr. Gann was writing Tunnel.

°*An equilateral triangle has three sides of equal length. An isosceles triangle has two sides of equal length.

--- PAGE 21 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

for the isosceles triangle; and the distance from the right-hand side of the book
is 61.8% of the width of the book for the equilateral triangle and 38.2% for the
isosceles triangle. Moreover, the measurements are exact. See Figure 1-1.

The third reference to the Law of Three is easy to miss. The author's name is
centred under the title of the book, but the title itself is offset from centre. This
is also shown in Figure 1-1. The consequence is that the trailing edge of the first
letter of the author's name is located precisely over the equilateral triangle in the
lower margin. Hence, the distance from the left-hand side of the book to the
start of the author's name is 38.2% of the width of the book, and the author's
name, W. D. Gann, is then contained within the remaining 61.8% of the width
of the book.»

These three oblique references to the Law of Three are unlikely to have been an
accident. Indeed, once a reader starts looking at Tunnel with the prior knowledge
that it contains evidence of the Law of Three, it becomes increasingly obvious
that the whole book was carefully designed to resonate with it. Each page is 4-
7/8 inches wide and 7-3/16 inches high. The ratio between the two
measurements approximates 0.666:1 which — as we shall see — is closely linked
to the Biblical presentation of the Golden Ratio.

THE TUNNEL
THRU THe AIR

‘aa fou
W. D. GANN

MS <g

1:0.666

(ib
>

r Leahy ve

FIGURE 1-1: SCHEMATICS OF MR. GANN’S ORIGINAL BOOK JACKET AND PAGE LAYOUT

‘The references on the dust jacket to the Golden Ratio have, of course, been Tost in subsequent redesigned editions

of Tunnel,

--- PAGE 22 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Meanwhile, the text on each page is presented in an area that measures 3-5/16
inches across and 5-3/8 inches down. The ratio of the width to the height is
therefore 0.618:1. Each page, therefore, consists of a 0.666 x 1 biblical rectangle
containing a 0.618 x 1 ‘Golden’ Rectangle.» Again, see Figure 1-1.

The Law of Three will be analysed in more detail in Chapter 3. It is, however,
only one element of the information that was hidden in Tiennel. Mr. Gann
allows Robert Gordon to speak of an immutable “law of vibration”, which is
mathematically precise and which repeats itself as a series of cycles within cycles.

Gordon is also shown to be critically aware of the importance of the number 7.
The climax of activity in Tiennel, for example, is called “Robert Gordon's Seven
Days” where Gordon puts people to sleep for seven days and, during that time,
destroys those of their buildings that are associated with religion, government,
and business. He starts the task at 07.00 hrs on the 21st (3 x 7) day of the 7th
month (July), and returns 7 days later.»

This placement of the number 7 in the context of cyclical time references a
second ancient spiritual law, called the Law of Seven.

The Law of Seven

The Law of Seven is the law of vibration. It defines the pattern of rhythmic time
cycles and identifies the critical points in these cycles where evolutionary change
can occur. At its simplest level, the Law of Seven is inherent in, and defined by,
the conventional Tonic Sol-Fa musical scale. In its more complex form, the
Law describes the patterns of oscillation in collective human behaviour. The
Law of Seven will be analysed in more detail in Chapter 7.

The central proposal contained in Tunnel, therefore, is that economic activity
and financial market speculation are both driven by two great cosmic laws: the
Law of Three and the Law of Seven. The laws have a long history but, by
tradition, knowledge about them has only been transmitted orally — and then
only in the context of psycho-spiritual development. So how did Mr. Gann
know about their existence, possibly even as early as 1898? In Tunnel, Mr. Gann
(in the guise of Robert Gordon) states that he has “gained a great deal of
knowledge by following the Bible”. This suggests that the two laws (or
something very similar) are somehow hidden within the Bible.

Artists have long known that the average person finds the Golden Rectangle attractive. See, for example, Mario
io, The Golden Ratio (Review, London, 2002).

Robert Gordon's Seven Days’ is the title of Chapter 39 (weitten XXXIX). Chapter 39 nevertheless lies between
Chapters 33 and 35, This is unlikely to have been an ac its meaning is unclear. First, it may be an
echo of, or an acknowledgement of, an earlier reference in Timnel to Eackiel, Chapter 39, which references a burning
of the weapons of war over a petiod of seven yeats. This correlates with Robert Gordon’ destruction of various cities
in seven days, Second, it may be an allusion to a relationship between verse 39 in St, Matthew's Gospel and the Law
of Seven, Nerse 39 is the starting point for a series of calculations that reveals the presence of the Law of Seven

* Ichas, therefore, also been referred to as the “Law of Octav
"Gann, Tunnel

Jent, altho

--- PAGE 23 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

BIBLE SECRETS

It is an important fact that the Bible — like all ancient, and genuinely sacred,
scripture — has two dimensions: the exoteric dimension, which deals primarily
with external laws; and an esoteric (secret/sacred) dimension, which deals with
inner (spiritual) laws. The latter dimension can only be accessed under the right
circumstances — not the least of which is that it is accepted as existing in the
first place. It follows, therefore, that if Mr. Gann was able to unlock the Bible's
innermost secrets then he must also have had access to the necessary keys.

Unfortunately, and until relatively recently, Christian authorities have tended to
deny the existence of an esoteric dimension to the Bible. Consequently, many
practising Christians have viewed the assertion of its existence as being in some
way evil, because it was occult. This point would not have been lost on Mr. Gann,
and would undoubtedly have contributed to his circumspection in revealing the
details of his knowledge. We shall be dealing with one of the relevant insights in
Chapters 2 and 3. In the meantime, what is the proof that Mr. Gann had the
necessary keys to access the hidden inner dimensions of the Bible?

In Tunnel, Mr. Gann refers directly to “the sign of the prophet Jonas”, which is
the subject of Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel. Robert Gordon is made to
say that “I believe that a man who understands the meaning of that [sign] has all
the power under heaven and earth... I believe that that is the key to the
interpretation of the future. Lam sure I have found it and know how to apply it.”

The analysis of St. Matthew's text is complicated and requires a prior knowledge
of the ancient science of numbers. Nevertheless, once the correct tools are
applied, the text reveals the presence of very meaningful mathematical and
geometrical constructs. As Mr. Gann claimed, these do indeed include direct
references to a law of vibration. We shall explore St Matthew's text in Chapters
4 and 5, and then look at some of the implications in Chapter 12."

The anomaly in terms of Mr. Gann’s claims, however, is that “the sign of the
prophet” itself does not reveal either how the laws actually work or how they
should be applied. In other words, it is still necessary to know about the existence
—and operation — of the Law of Three and the Law of Seven prior to interpreting
St. Matthew's text. It is thus difficult to get away from the conclusion that the
Bible may not have been the only source of Mr. Gann’s insights. He almost
certainly obtained the initial knowledge from somewhere else.

Se. Matthew: Chapter 12, verses 38-40 “Then certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we
would sce a sign from thee. But he answered and said unto them: “An evil and adulterous generation secketh after
4 sign; and there shall no sign be given it, bur the sign of the prophet Jonas: For as Jonas was three days and nights
in the whale’s belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”

® Some of its implications remain beyond the understanding of this author.

--- PAGE 24 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

BEELZEBUB’S TALES

It is a fact that Tunnel has some remarkable parallels with a book, written by
George Ivanovitch Gurdjieff, entitled All and Everything: An Objectively
Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man, or Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson
(hereafter, Beelzebub’s Tales). This book is an allegorical novel that claims to
contain a body of sacred knowledge concerning the laws of the universe. The
book is difficult to read because its structure and language were carefully
designed to avoid loose interpretation. It has, in effect, to be translated.” But
one of the important disclosures contained in the book is the existence of the
Law of Three and the Law of Seven.

The differences in content between Tunnel and Beelzebub’s Tales could not —
literally! — be greater. Nevertheless, there are some significant parallels between
the two books. Mr. Gann and Mr. Gurdjieff both claim that their books contain
secrets that can only be accessed if they are read three times. Both authors
indicate that the first reading is essentially an ordinary process; both indicate
that the second reading should be approached as part of a learning process; and
both maintain that the secret will start to become apparent on the third reading.
Of course, the fact that both authors suggest that their book be read three times
may just be a coincidence, based on the desire to transmit the idea that the
number 3 itself is important.

What will also become apparent is that Tunnel and Beelzebub’ Tales both use
the same, very specific, technique to hide the particular pattern that is intrinsic
to the law of vibration/Law of Seven within their books. Once the code has been
broken, both books reveal the same pattern. Furthermore — and as a most
amazing confirmation — the pattern is the same as that contained within “the
sign of the prophet Jonas”.

A COMMON SOURCE

Although these parallels suggest that Mr. Gann may have obtained his
knowledge from Mr. Gurdjieff, such contact seems unlikely. Mr. Gann claimed
that he knew about a law of vibration in 1909. At that stage, Mr. Gurdjieff (who
was only about five years older than Mr. Gann) was living in Eastern Europe
and had not even made a known public appearance. Moreover, although Mr.

 Gurdjielf, Beeleebubs Tales.

» The earliest and most complete summary of Mr. Guedjieff’s work, written in an understandable form, is
contained in Pyotr D. Ouspensky, In Search of the Miraculous: Fragments of an Unknown Teaching (Harcourt, Brace
& World, New York, 1949).

* There are other parallels that are worth noting. Both books contain references to astrology ~ Tunnel explicitly and
Beelzebubs Tales implicitly. Both books use Roman numerals for chapter headings.

Colin Wilson, G. 1. Gurdjieff The War Against Sleep (The Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, 1986),

--- PAGE 25 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

Gurdjieff started to write Beelzebub’s Tales in late 1924, it was not available to
the general public until 1950. Mr. Gann published Tinnel in 1927, so he could
not have read Mr. Gurdjieff’s finished book.»

This is by no means conclusive, but it does raise the possibility of the existence
of another — common ~ originating source, which would have pre-dated both
men. Mr. Gann was a highly-placed Freemason, which may have given him access
to information that was not otherwise generally availablesand Mr. Gurdjieff was
always quite clear that he had obtained his knowledge from elsewhere.:

The truth is that we'll probably never know precisely where the information
came from, how Mr. Gann obtained it, or why he ended up hiding it. But there
is no question that Mr. Gann and Mr. Gurdjieff were somehow on a parallel
path, and that their respective insights about the functioning of a law of
vibration emerged almost simultaneously.

More tellingly, both men chose to bury a particular aspect of their insights,
either as a challenge to their students or for future use. Tunnel and Beelzebubs
Tales both use the same specific method of transmitting vital information; both
hid the same particular pattern relating to natural cycles; and both accepted the
existence of cosmic laws that, in the 1920s, would have been regarded with
suspicion. The coincidences are far too meaningful to be totally ignored.

So, what are these cosmic laws, and how are they hidden in the Bible?

™ There are other points of potential contact, Ir is quite posible, for example, that Mr. Gann knew about Mr.
Gurdjieft’s teachings, and was attracted to them because of his interest in the law of vibration. There were lectures
— given by Alfred Orage and other high calibre followers of Mr, Gurdjieff — both in New York and London in the
early 1920s. Indeed, Mr Gutdjieff himself was in New York in 1924 and 1925-26. In addition, draft copies of what
eventually became the final text of Beeleebub’ Tales were also circulated amongst students for instruction and for
comment. Further, Mr. Gann's 1909 version of the law may not have been the same as the one that he subsequently
hid in Tunnel. The 1909 version of the law of vibration is described by him in very mechanistic terms. He argues
that “the law of vibration is the fundamental law upon which wireless telegraphy, wireless telephone and
photographs are based.” The Ticker and Investment Digest (December 1909). This indicates a focus on periodic
fluctuations rather than the variable pattern of fluctuations in living systems. At the time, periodic fluctuations were
riot thought to be applicable to stocks and commodities.

"Mr, Gann was a 32nd Degree Freemason of the Scottish Rite Order and itis highly likely thac this gave him access
to material that was considered to be secret, See David Keller (Ed.), Breakthroughs in Technical Analysis (Bloomberg
Press, New York, 2007). Me. Gann's contention that the Bible was the source of his knowledge could therefore have
been a defence against any criticism that he had broken his vows of secrecy. It is also possible that Mr. Gann received
the ideas relating to the law of vibration by accessing alternative states of consciousness. Mr. Gann’s unusual book
The Magic Word contains insteuctions for chanting the seven-letter word “Jehovah” in three separate syllables as part
of a prayer routine. If used over a sustained period of time, concentration on the thythmic word (or words) of a
‘mantra can suppress the brains tendency to generate random thoughts. This enables the meditator to access not just
alternative states of consciousness, but also (sometimes) alternative states of reality. The former has significant — and
known ~ benefits in terms of relaxation; the latter has benefits ~ albeit less well documented ~ in terms of knowledge.
Mr. Gann himself mentions his “many blessings by applying the Magic Word" in terms of “health, happiness and
prosperity”.

Ie is alleged that Mr. Gurdjieff’s teachings can be traced back ~ albeit somewhat subjectively ~ to very early
Christianity, in the first five centuries C.E, The knowledge is, for example, said to have been preserved by a group
known as the “Saurmong Brotherhood”. Unfortunately, the only evidence for the existence of this group appears to
be the body of teachings attributed to it. See, for example, Wilson, Gurdjief

--- PAGE 26 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 27 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 2

THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE
CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES

“T hold that the Bible contains the key to the process by which man may know
all there is to know of the future.”

W.D. Gann

THE NUMBER 666

In Chapter 13 of the Book of Revelation in the Christian Bible, there is an explicit
arithmetical number that has been the cause of much anguish, confusion and
academic debate. That number is 666.’

Misunderstandings have been caused by the fact that, despite the
groundbreaking work of Bligh Bond and Simcox Lea as long ago as 1917, very
few people are aware of the science of gematria that was used in the writing of
Holy Scriptures.’ Gematria is the technique of assigning specific numbers to
each letter of an alphabet, thereby allowing the calculation of the numerical
value of certain words. These numerical values give additional meaning to each
word, because they can be cross-referenced with other words.

A great deal of open-minded research still needs to be done on the subject, but
the evidence already suggests that the main purpose of gematria was essentially
twofold: first to give an harmonic structure to spiritual texts; and second, to

"Revelation, Chapter 13, verse 18.

Bligh Bond and Simcox Lea, Gematria (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1917). See also John Michell, City of Revelation.
On the Proportions and Symbolic Numbers of the Cosmic Temple (Garnstone Press Ltd., London, 1972). The word
™gematria” is derived from the Greek word yeouetptar, or “geometria”, meaning geometry.

--- PAGE 28 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

ensure that an additional — and higher — form of knowledge was transmitted
within those texts.

In the context of early versions of the Christian New Testament, the relevant
alphabet was Greek and the number assigned to each letter is shown in
Appendix 1. Quite obviously, all of the numeric wisdom contained in the
original Greek text was lost when it was translated into other languages. Hence
the phrase “let him who has understanding count (or calculate) the number of
the beast”, in Revelation, Chapter 13, Verse 18, will take on a totally different
meaning when it is realised that each of the letters in the Greek rendition of the
subsequent phrase carries a number from gematria.:

The request to “count” is obviously a literal one. This means that the number
appropriate to the infamous “beast” is not 666 at all, but something totally
different.» However, in the absence of the necessary key — that is, a knowledge
of gematria — the number 666 has come to be specifically, and incorrectly,
associated with the power of evil.

In fact, the number 666 was originally used by ancient authorities to denote a
particular type of energy — namely, the type of energy that is symbolised by the
sun. For example, the number 666 can be found in the specific matrix of
numbers that was traditionally associated with the sun. This matrix is one of a
family of matrices known as magic squares that are associated with the planets.’
Magic squares are so-called because each and every row, column and diagonal
in the square adds up to an identical number. This helps to confirm an
extraordinary, but definite, order underlying the structure of numbers. Hence,
in the sun Square, which is shown below in Figure 2-1, there are 6 rows and 6
columns; and each row, column or diagonal adds up to 111.

The second important feature of each magic square is that the sum of all the
numbers in the square creates a characteristic number for the square. Hence, in
the Sun Square, the sum of all the numbers (i.e. 1 to 36) creates the characteristic

Aland, New Tenament
‘The subsequent phrase reads: “for it is the number of a man and his number is six hundted thrcescore and six”
The Holy Bible (Authorised (King James), English Revised Version, 1881). Later versions of the Bible refer to the
number 666 as being “man's number” or “a human number”, rather than the number of a particular individual
“Interested readers are referred co John Michell’s The Dimensions of Paradise (Thames and Hudson, London, 1988)
for a full discussion of this point. The veracity of the number 666 ~ at least in this context ~ has, in any case, been
challenged. A possible alternative is 612. Sce Hugh Schonfield, The Original New Testament: A Radical
Reinterpretation and New Translation (Waterstone & Co, London, 1985)
See Jim Moran, The Wonders of Magic Squares (Vintage Books, New York, 1982). Hence
+ Saturn: 3 x 3 square: rows, columns, and diagonals sum to 15; characteristic number, 45; quotient, 3.
Jupiter: 4 x 4; 34; 136; 4
+ Mars: 5x 5; 65; 325: 5,
© Sun: 6 x 6; 111; 666; 6.
* Venus: 7 x 7; 175; 1225;
* Mercury: 8 x 8; 260; 2080; 8.
* Moon: 9 x 9; 369; 3321;

--- PAGE 29 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 2

number for the sun itself ~ namely, 666. This is the number that cross references
to the number 666 in Greek gematria.”

[6 |32] 3 [34] 35] 1 |
|7 | 11]27|28] 8 [30] »
19| 14) 16|15]23]24]
18|20] 22/24/17] 13]
25|29) 10| 9 |26| 12]
36] 5 [33] 4] 2 [34]

111 111 111 111 111 111 666

FIGURE 2-1: THE MAGIC SUN SQUARE

This relationship between magic squares and the science of gematria extends
the underlying order of numbers into the very structure of language and
therefore into the dimensions of communication and learning. Hence, the use
of the number 666 could either be taken by association to imply the'sun, or it
could be taken to mean those aspects of the archetypal energy represented by
che'aun; Inthe laceer. case, the appropriate accriburenswere hose of dynamism;
expansion and fertilisation — basically, actively creative energy. This, indeed, is
why the Book of Revelation calls the number 666 “the number of a man”: it is an
explicit reference to male energy.

The sun, therefore, was taken to represent the positive half of the polarity split
that characterises activity throughout the universe. The moon, meanwhile, was
taken to represent the other half — the negative half

Ic is important to recognise right here that these two polarities were understood
to represent complementary energies. They did not incorporate any value

Tr also crow references 0 the number 666 in Hebrew gematra, Its the value of "Sorath’, the Spirit of the sun, See
David Fideler, fous Christ, Sun of God: Ancient Cosmology and Early Christian Symbolism (Quest, Wheaton (Il.), 1993).
* There is no obvious direct relationship between the Sun Square and the Moon Square, except as part of the
progression through the hierarchy of planets

--- PAGE 30 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

judgements whatsoever, but were concepts that dealt with the ebb and flow of
change. Every movement in Nature was seen as consisting of a combination of
both types of energy. Where the positive energy dominated, a system would be
described as being active, expanding, growing, or moving. Where the negative
energy dominated, the system was seen as being passive, contracting, dying, or
standing still. The necessary coexistence of both types of energy meant — and
still means — that it was totally inappropriate and misleading to denote solar
energy and its corresponding attributes as being evil.

In fact, these concepts are now better understood by modern Western
philosophers, mainly because of the influence of Eastern thought. Hence, solar-
type activity corresponds to the yang of Chinese philosophy and to the rajasic
guna of Indian philosophy. The mathematical symbol of solar energy is therefore
a plus sign; its sex is male; its sphere of activity is mental; the character of its
activity is (broadly-speaking) logical and rational; its dynamic attributes are
expansion and penetration; its associated mineral is gold; and its arena is the
light. In Greek biblical texts the sum by gematria of the letters in words or
phrases having these attributes was 666. For example, the sum of the letters in
the Greek phrase meaning “the mind” or “reason” is 666."

THE NUMBER 1080

In contradistinction to the positive solar-type of energy stands the negative
lunar-type of energy. Activity here is understood to be receptive. It corresponds
to the yin of Chinese philosophy and the tamasic guna of Indian philosophy. Its
mathematical symbol is a minus sign; its sex is female; its sphere of activity is
emotional; the character of its activity is intuitive and non-rational; its dynamic
attributes are contraction and absorption; its associated mineral is silver; and its
arena is the dark.

Unlike the solar number, however, the lunar number is not explicit in the Christian
Scriptures. This, in fact, is one of the reasons why both numbers have been
misunderstood. Nevertheless, writers such as the late John Michell,» who spent
many years researching the subject, have concluded that biblical words and phrases
that have lunar attributes: yield a very precise number. That number is 1080.

7A guna is an energy attribute. Traditionally, there are three gunas: rajasic (active), tamasic (passive) and sattwic
(cquilibrating). See text.

© That is, N@pNV = 8+500+10048+50 = 666.

" Michell, City of Revelation. See also Michell, Dimensions of Paradise. Michell’s findings have provided the basis for
a new generation of research into the sacred doctrines hidden within the Scriprures. As a result, itis now possible
to trace the relationship berween early Christian gnostics and the teachings of the ancient mystery cults. See Fideler,
Jesus Christ.

" Although not the word “moon” itself. The Greek equivalent is o€Anvn, which has a gematrian value of 301

--- PAGE 31 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 2

‘The importance of this number is highlighted by the fact that it is — very
specifically — the number by gematria of the Greek phrase To aytov
Tveupia, meaning “the Holy Spirit”. Furthermore, it is the calculated number for
the Greek rendering of such well-known phrases as the “Fountain of Wisdom”,
and the “Abyss”. It seems more than just a coincidence that the radius of the moon
itself is just over 1080 miles« and that the atomic weight of silver is 108.0.

Although very important, most of this might seem basically irrelevant to the
subject matter in hand. However, it is not. There is a very significant relationship
between the solar number, 666, and the lunar number, 1080. If the former
ivided by the latter, then the resulting ratio between them is 0.62:1.

number is

That is:

666 / 1080 = 0.62

Alternatively, the ratio between the two numbers can be shown the other way
around, so that:

1080 / 666 = 1.62

Philosophically, the ratios 0.62:1 and 1.62:1 are regarded as being
interchangeable: either can be denoted by the 21st letter of the Greek alphabet
¢ (= phi), and both are called the Golden Ratio.

THE GOLDEN RATIO

The Golden Ratio — more accurately defined as 0.618:1 or its inverse 1.618:1
~ is an extraordinary phenomenon. Its presence in Nature is now very well
attested: it can be found both in natural structures® (such as the human body)
and in natural processes (such as growth spirals). The presence of the Ratio in
the Bible suggests that it has long been understood as being sacred. Certainly it
seems, in some mysterious way, to be a part of Nature's b/ueprint with respect
to space and time.

The starting point for any analysis of the Golden Ratio is the fact that it is the
only ratio that will divide a straight line in such a way that the ratio of the smaller
part to the larger part is exactly equal to the ratio of the larger part to the whole.

“That is, To ayiov Mveusa = 3004 70+ 1434 10+ 70+ 50+ 80+ 50+ 5+ 400 +4041 = 1080,

“The equatorial radius of the moon is 1,086.3 miles. The English mile is thus a cruly “natural” measure. The
purposes and wisdom relating to such measures are, of course, becoming lost to us as we embrace the apparently
‘easier method of measurement using metres and kilometres. This is a point well made by John Michell, The New
View Over Adantis (Thames and Hudson, London, 1983).

* See, for example, Livio, Golden Rati.

° Ibid.

15

--- PAGE 32 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Hence, in the following diagram (Figure 2-2):

BC / AB = AB/ AC =0.618

a
A B Cc

FIGURE 2-2: THE GOLDEN RATIO.

The importance of the diagram is that it uses a Golden Measure that expresses
three concepts simultaneously:

1. The Measure is a number, albeit an irrational one, (i.e. 0.618);
2. It isa ratio between two numbers (i.e. 0.618:1); and

3. Itis a continuous proportion between three numbers (represented by the
lengths AC, AB and BC in Figure 2).

The Golden Measure therefore simultaneously expresses the ideas of unity
(number), duality (ratio) and trinity (proportion). Hence, it can be called the
Golden Number, the Golden Ratio or the Golden Proportion.

The equivalency between the two ratios BC:AB and AB:AC means that the
three values AB, BC and AC always bear the same relationship to one another.
However, AC is equal to the sum of AB and BC. Hence the equation defining
the Golden Proportion expresses the relationship between three terms by the
relationship between two of those terms. In other words, if:

BC is to AB as AB is to AC

and if:
AC =AB+BC
then:

AB / (AB + BC) = BC/ AB = 0.618

Ancient theological authorities considered these aspects of the Golden Measure
to be very significant.” Indeed, they considered that the Measure directly
reflected the essential nature of God, or The Source of All Things. For this

7 See Robert Lawlor, Sacred Geometry: Philosophy and Practice (Thames and Hudson, London, 1982). In addition
to the spatial relationship defining @ (as shown in Figure 2-2), there is another aspect to $ which is important. This
is the uniqueness of the equation:

--- PAGE 33 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 2

reason, and because it could be found at all levels of Nature, it was also known
as The Divine Proportion. Hence, in analysing the Golden Measure, it is
important that we understand the veneration with which it was treated.
Otherwise, we run the danger of missing its essential function.

Implications of the Golden Ratio

First, since the larger of the elements in the above equations is equal to the sum
of the other two elements, the Golden Ratio was considered to be an expression
of the way that The One divided itself into Tivo. Second, because the proportion
between the ratios was constant, the Golden Proportion was considered to be
an expression of the way that change could occur without involving chaos. The
Golden Measure was therefore taken to mirror the presumed relationship
between God and the phenomenal world, because it embodied the reconciliation
between Unity and Duality — that is, between The Whole and Its Parts.

The logic behind this conclusion is very revealing, In the first place, and as has
already been observed, duality is an intrinsic feature of life. All movement is
defined in terms of an oscillation between two opposite polarities. Implicit in
the idea of oscillation, however, is the related concept of diff>rences. Differences
convey information to an observer and therefore provide the basis for a
response." Without differences between structures, and between states of being,
there would be nothing to perceive, nothing to respond to, and therefore no
movement or evolution.

From this it follows that any mathematical symbol that was to be taken by
Christian philosophers as reflecting the primary division of God into two parts
had to incorporate the idea of active difference — i.e. something other than a
fifty/fifty split. On the one hand, just dividing something into two halves means
the creation of two identical parts. This in turn means that there would be no
differences to trigger a reaction from a system. On the other hand, therefore,
bisecting something along the lines of the Golden Ratio incorporates the idea
not only of duality but also of the presence of genuine information.

In the second place, harmony between structures, and between different states
of being, is essential to the preservation of life through both time and space.
Without harmony, there would be chaos and destruction, and (except for very
briefly, perhaps) there would be no existence. Ancient authorities saw harmony

V+ (ox V6) = Vox ($x 174)
which is equivalent to:

Vo+ (Voy = Vb x (Vor
The resulting value is 4.236, which is (1/¢). This is the only equation where a summation involving two terms (i.e.
Vopand (1/6) is identical to the value obtained from the multiplication of the same two terms,
" See Gregory Bateson, Mind and Nature —An Exential Unity (Wildwood House, London, 1979). In the phenomenal
world, activity is generated by information, Bateson defines information as “differences which make a difference”

7

--- PAGE 34 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

as being a result of proportion, so that movement in one area would be
responded to by a movement in another area: the parts would adjust, and the
whole would reflect this adjustment. The application of the Golden Proportion
to the cosmology of Being implicitly allows for co-dependent adjustment
throughout a system so that any potential conflict between the parts is effectively
contained.

This is a profound conclusion and, among other things, involves two clear
insights into the nature of life on Earth. First, it implies that apparently
destructive forces among the parts of Nature actually only have a very limited
potential to destroy the whole of Nature. Second, this in turn suggests the explicit
operation of a harmonising, or equilibrating, force. In fact, and as we shall see
in Chapter 3, the Golden Ratio provides direct information relating to this
equilibrating force and also provides indirect information relating to the very
structure of Creation itself.

18

--- PAGE 35 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 3
THE LAW OF THREE

“In every law of nature there is a major and a minor; a positive, a negative
and a neutral.

W. D. Gann

“Every action, every phenomenon in all worlds without exception, is the result
of the simultaneous action of three forces — the positive, the negative, and the
neutralising.”

PD. Ouspensky

THREE CREATIVE FORCES

The use of the Golden Ratio by early Christian writers implies a deep
understanding of the cosmological forces operating within the universe.
Specifically, the use of the number 666 to denote mental energy with active
attributes, and the use of the number 1080 to denote spiritual energy with
passive (or receptive) attributes, suggests an understanding of the universe as an
interplay of opposing, but nevertheless complementary, forces.

However, harmony requires some method of reconciling these opposing forces.
It is not sufficient to look just at the influence of the positive and negative energy
polarities. There has to be a third force that resolves their differences. In Eastern
philosophy, the existence of this third force has always been accepted. In Chinese
thought, for example, it is recognised as an aspect of The Tao, while in India it
is more clearly identified as the sattwic guna.’

"The sattwic guna is regarded as being of the same hierarchical order as the tamasic and rajasic gunas,

19

--- PAGE 36 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In fact, the third force — and the Law of Three — can be inferred from the Golden
Ratio. According to the formulation of the Golden Ratio, two terms can be used
to define the relationship between three terms. Hence, it follows that the third
term can be deduced from the first two. The implication is that a combination
of the dual forces of spiritual and mental energies contributes to a greater whole.
The number of this greater whole, by deduction is 1746 (i.e. 1080 + 666). John
Michell called this the “number of fusion”: In this arrangement, it follows that:

1080 / 1746 = 666 / 1080 = 0.62

The Golden Ratio is thus consistent with the presence of the three creative forces
recognised by general religious tradition — namely, spiritual energy, mental
energy, and a combination of both that constitutes a Whole or Unity. According
to this tradition, Spirit is the receptive matrix of all possibilities, Creative Mind
is its generative counterpart that produces specific dynamic processes from
within the matrix of spiritual potential, and the combined force of Spirit and
Mind is both the resu/t of the Whole and the cause of the Whole. This, i
argued, is the Mystery of Creation.

can be

The mystery of the third force

The difficulty, of course, is that — being a mystery — the presence of the third
energy is impossible to prove through discursive thought, since the result is
always a paradox.: In the West, therefore, the attitude towards the existence of
a third force, or energy, is somewhat ambivalent. Christianity clearly views the
source of harmony as being God, but cannot be definitive about the operation
of harmony because of a hostile attitude towards the forces of dissolution that
are contained within Nature.

On the other hand, Western scientific authorities explicitly recognise the
operation of the laws of creation*and dissolution — unchanging laws of Nature
— but do not, generally (or necessarily), accept the role of a higher power in
these laws. They do not therefore explicitly accept the role of a third force.

Philosophically, of course, it is not possible (at a level) to distinguish between
the concept of God and the idea of unchanging laws of Nature. If God is

"The number 1746 is, by gemattia, the value of a grain of mustard seed, which is mentioned in St. Matthews Gospel
(Chapter 13, verse 31). Ie is also the value of the phrase the ‘Same and the Other’ used by Plato to denote opposite
polarities; and of the Greek for ‘Father, Son, Spirit’. See Michell, Dimensions of Paradise,

» The relationship between Spirit and Mind thus parallels the implications of Schrodinger’s wave equation in the New
Physics. An infinite profusion of possibilities is actualised into a specific ourcome by mental perception. See, for example,
Gary Zukav, The Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics (William Morrow, New York, 1979),

* The application of mental reasoning to the phenomenon of God results in the paradox of opposite truths ~
namely, God is both immanent and transcendent, is both part and whole, and is both devolution and evolution. The
problem is that mental reasoning can only relate to, experience, and understand levels of consciousness that are at
the same or lower levels than itself. It can therefore understand mind and matter, but it cannot experience spirit.

20

--- PAGE 37 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF THREE
CHAPTER 3

expressed in terms of the operation of unchanging and universal laws, there will
inevitably be a point where scientific endeavour actually becomes impotent: it
becomes impossible to reduce the laws any further and we can only point to the
fact that certain laws exist in the first place.

Whatever one’s attitude to the concept of God, it seems logical to conclude that,
without some form of a third force that generates, maintains, and participates
in the coherence of the universe, nothing that exists could exist. So, if the
existence of this force is accepted as a working hypothesis, then we can look at
the phenomenon of the three forces — active, passive and reconciling — from
two perspectives. First, we can see it horizontally, in terms of the diagram shown
in Figure 2-2, and reproduced as Figure 3-1.

Third force

Receptive Generative

FIGURE 3-1: THE GOLDEN RATIO EXPRESSED IN TERMS OF THE THREE FORCES

In this format, the third force contains the other two energies. Its wholistic
authority embraces both the active force of generative change and the passive
force of fertile and receptive potential. It would therefore embrace, reflect, and
stimulate the other two forces: actively, it would ensure that vibration and
change exist in the first place; passively, it would ensure that the resulting
perturbations are subject to compensatory adjustments. In short, it would ensure
harmony. On this hypothesis, it is difficult to miss the idea that the third force
would be a specific attribute of the conscious energy field that humankind has
traditionally called The Creator.

‘Selence ~ particularly in the area of quantum physics ~ is getting closer and closer to incorporating the concept of
an overarching self-organising force. On this, and many related aspects of the search for an integral ‘theory of,
everything’, sce Ervin Laszlo, Science and the Re-enchantment of the Cosmos: The Rise of the Integral Vision of Reality
(Inner Traditions, Rochester (Vt.), USA, 2006).

©Since the third force cannot allow total chaos, all living organisms respond to its imperative to merge with greater
wholes. The third force thus provides both the basic impulse to coexist and the impulse to evolve. See Ken Wilber,
Up from Eden: A Transpersonal View of Human Evolution (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1983),

The active and passive forces would also be fundamental aspects of The Creator. There are, therefore, three distinct
conclusions that could be drawn, First, the universe is actualised from fertile Spirit by generative Mind. Second, the
universe necessarily contains opposing energy forces. Third, if the two energies remain in a constant relationship to
the Source from which they arise, then the Source itself would likely retain an influence during the process of creation.

a1

--- PAGE 38 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Hierarchical order

The second way in which the triad of energies contained in the Golden Ratio
can be viewed is vertically. This approach accepts that, although the whole is
bounded by the third force, the structure of that whole is in some way
hierarchical. This idea of a hierarchy of power was reflected in the ancient
hermetic formula: “as above, so below”. Whatever takes place at one level of
being will also occur in some form at another (lower) level of being.

However, this phenomenon is only possible if each level of being is in some way
a stepped-down version of the level above it. There would be an analogue law
that would traniamit changes down through the hierarchy of being: Imporntly,
this principle would necessarily guarantee the existence of harmony within the
whole; and the Golden Measure is, in fact, a perfect representation of this
haimony

This certainly appears to have been the attitude of the early Christian
philosophers. First, the way that the number series 1746, 1080, 666 reduces in
size is suggestive of a hierarchical structure to the triad of energies implicit in
their concept of God.» Second, the critical mediating role of the force
represented by the number 1080 is implicit in the fact that the number 1080 is
the geometric mean of the numbers 1746 and 666." According to Plato and
Pythagoras, a geometric mean was not only the product of two extremes but it
also reconciled the two extremes. It thereby produced harmony. Third, harmony
is produced from proportion — i.e. from equivalency between ratios. In this case,
the ratio is not just any old ratio, it is specifically the Golden Ratio and, if each
level is a stepped-down version of the level above it, then each level would
maintain a constant relationship to the level above and below it.:

The question that arises from this presentation is: what would be the nature of
each of the forces represented by the three numbers 1746, 1080 and 666 when
they are placed in a vertical framework? In principle, they should correspond to

See Ken Wilber, “Reflections on the New-Age Paradignt in Ken Wilber (Ed), The Holographic Paradigm
(Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1985). Ic is important to recognise that the flow of authority is essentially downwards.
Creativity at the highest levels is reflected in some degree of flexibility (or randomness) at the lower levels. But
apparent randomness at the lower levels does not mean that the highest levels are therefore themselves random, This
downward flow of authority also means that the lower levels are unlikely to recognise the purposes of the higher and
are likely therefore to regard change only in their own context.

» See Lawlor, Sacred Geometry. Indeed, traditional esoteric teachings in most of the world’s main religions (e.g.
Christian mysticism, Sufism, Hinduism, Buddhism) argue that the universe was created by a progressive reduction
in spiritual vibrations.

© This presentation would not mean that there are three Gods, only that there are thrce ‘dimensions’, or aspects, 0
God. Christianity sees the three dimensions as being ‘consubstantial’ ~ ic. of the same essence.

" Thar is, 1080 = (1746 x 666). The number 1080 thus mediates between the two extremes.

* As if to confirm this analysis, the process of summing the digits in each of the numbers 1746, 1080 and 666
reduces them all to the number 9. This latter number was always associated with initiation and completion. Hence,
14744+6=14+8=9%14+04+8+0=9%and6+6+6=1+8=9.

22

--- PAGE 39 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF THREE
CHAPTER 3

the three primary divisions (or gradations) of Being that are recognised by most
religious traditions — namely, The Source, the First Emanation from The Source

(i.e. Spirit) and the Realm of Time (i.e. Creative Mind).

Iris quite clear from John Michell’s work on gematria that this was, indeed, the
intended implication.» The number 1080 is the intermediate term between 1746
and 666, and the Holy Spirit can thus be seen as the dynamic linkage between
what is Above and what is Below. In other words, ancient authorities were able
to visualise the Holy Spirit as being the vehicle that transmitted the powers of
the Creator throughout the universe. Spirit became Creative Mind, animated

by Itself.

NATURE’S LAWS

This use of the three numbers 1746, 1080 and 666 thus helps to explain why
the Golden Ratio was known as the Divine Proportion. Nevertheless, attempting
to unravel the insights of the early Christian writers about the Golden Ratio is
not necessarily the same thing as saying that their conclusions were correct.
Indeed, for many in this scientific age, the operation of the equilibrating powers
of God through the agency of Spirit is an intellectually unsatisfying explanation
for the intrinsic harmony of Life.

The fact remains, however, that life on Earth does appear to be bounded by
certain inviolable laws that synchronistically incorporate fluctuation and
harmony. We may not yet fully understand why this should be so but, at the very
least, we can usefully acknowledge that these laws are built upon three forces that
can be defined respectively as active, passive, and reconciling. Taken together,
these forces constitute what George Gurdjieff called “the Law of Three”.

As will become increasingly apparent, the Law of Three expresses itself in various
ways in life on this Earth, and it is central to the evolution of natural cycles.

The Greck texts of the New Testaments were written before the First Council of Nicea (which sat in 325 C.E,)
Ik is possible chat this Council ~ which established subsequent Christian orthodox teaching concerning the Trinity
~ knew that the scriptures themselves could not be altered and so suppressed the idea that gematria in the texts
carried deeper meanings.

“The three numbers therefore provide a very clear exposition of early understandings about the Trinity. The
number 1746 would have corresponded to The Father, 1080 would have referred to The Holy Spirit and 666 would
have implied The Son. On the face of it, this is an awkward conclusion because the history of 666 means that, for
many Christians, the number is almost irrevocably equated with the power of evil. The critical point, however, is
that the numbers 1746, 1080 and 666 relate to the cosmogony of Being, Under this schema, there is no implied
relationship between any particular individual and the Source. Difficulties of interpretation arise because Christian
theology equates The Son to Jesus Christ and thus blurs the distinction between the different concepts of “the Son
of man” (see Chapter 4, and note 13), “the Son of God” (ie. Christ) and “The Son” (ie. Creation), Furthermore,
the number 666 references the stepped-down version of what the ancients thought of as being The Holy Spirit, and
thus means the created world of time and space.

“Ouspensky, Jn Search,

23

--- PAGE 40 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

This was why Mr. Gann found it so important. However, before looking at the
law in more depth, we need to delve a little further into the Christian scriptures
in order to shed light on Mr. Gann’s extraordinary claim that a certain passage
in the Bible embodies hidden information that is directly applicable to a law of
vibration — and, by inference, to collective human behaviour.”

It turns out that the passage in question contains a number of layers of meaning
and that the significance of the final revelation is enhanced by the genius of the
structure on which it is built.

* Gann, Tionel,

24

--- PAGE 41 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 4

THE SIGN OF THE
PROPHET JONAS

“L believe that that is the key to the interpretation of the future.”
W.D. Gann

ST MATTHEW’S GOSPEL

It has been shown that the Bible contains hidden information in the form of
symbolic numbers and that these numbers contain references to the energy of a
third force encapsulated within the Golden Ratio. The task now is to follow the
lead provided by William Gann and analyse certain specific references that he
made to the Bible. In so doing it will be possible to reveal not only the
extraordinary nature of the Bible itself, but also the remarkable perceptions of
those who were involved in producing it. Some of the resulting information is
beyond current scientific understanding.

‘As was mentioned in Chapter 1, in Tienmel Mr. Gann — in the guise of Robert
Gordon’ — was quite specific in declaring that he had the key to the
interpretation of the future. He argues that the key can be found in Chapter 12
of St. Matthew's Gospel, verses 38-40, under “the sign of the prophet Jonas”.:
The original Greek text is shown in Appendix 2. The text, as translated by Mr.
Gann, reads:

"Gann, Tunnel
“The same “sign’ is teferted to a second time in St. Matthew, Chapter 16, verses 1-4. The reason for this is not clear
The repetition may be designed co highlight its importance

--- PAGE 42 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Then some scribes and Pharisees said to him, “Teacher, we wish to see a
sign from you.” But he answered them:

“An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign; but no sign shall be
given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonas. For as Jonas was three
days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so shall the Son of man
be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”

It was shown in Chapter 2 that examining a biblical text in terms of gematria can
yield some astonishing insights into the hidden meanings and purposes of the text.
The obscure nature of “the sign of the prophet Jonas” certainly suggests that it might
contain hidden dimensions based on gematria. This possibility can now be explored
in some detail. By demonstrating the integrity and credibility of St. Matthew's text,
it is also possible to establish the authority of the eventual revelations.

“JONAH” OR “JONAS”

The first point to make is that, in gematria, not only is every letter important, but
also the words and sentences need to be seen in terms of logical clusters. Extra
information is carried by the mathematical relationships between specific phrases.

The second point to make is that there is something very significant about the
original Greek text from which the above translation is derived. This is that the
name of the individual being referenced actually changes between verse 39 and
verse 40. In the original Greek, verse 39 concludes:

TO Onelov = tavar Tou mpopntou
the sign Jonah ofthe prophet

While the beginning of verse 40 includes the phrase:

lavac ev Tm  KkolAla = =Tou — KNTOUG
Jonas in the belly ofthe — whale

In other words, the name changes from Jonah to Jonas.

In practice, most translators use either Jonah or Jonas in both places in the text
without explicitly acknowledging that there is a difference: the Nestle-Aland
Greek-English New Testament, for example, uses “Jonah” in its translation; while
Mr. Gann himself uses “Jonas”. In terms of gematria, however, such differences
are usually of critical importance. So, the question is: why does the difference
exist in the first place? There are at least three answers.

"Aland, New Testament,

26

--- PAGE 43 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

First, there is always the possibility that a mistake was made during the process
of hand-copying the original Greek texts and then translating them. Second,
the name could have been changed on purpose to divert attention from the
esoteric nature of “the sign of the prophet”. Finally, if the original text is held as
being strictly accurate, then the distinction between [ava and Iavac could
be a clue to breaking an underlying code.:

The value of “c”

le is therefore wilikely to be’ ain accident iat, in’ Tanned, Mr Gani explicitly
contrasts the names “Jonah” and “Jonas”. Mr Gann has Robert Gordon state
that he has “read the book of Jonah thru very carefully, and [has understood]
what the Saviour meant when he said: ‘No sign shall be given, but the sign of
the prophet Jonas.”” Mr Gann thus differentiates between “Jonah” (from the
book of Jonah) and the prophet “Jonas” (in verse 39 of St. Matthew's text). The
direct inference is that Mr. Gann believed that it was necessary to include the
Greek letter “¢” in the phrase “the sign of the prophet Jonas”.

Whatever the original reason for the letter “” being excluded from verse 39,
the results both of allowing the difference, and of then including (or re-
including) it in the “sign of the prophet”, are extraordinary: on the one hand,
allowing the difference has the same effect as inserting — and turning — a key in
a lock and opening a door onto a hidden world; on the other hand, using
“Ieovac” instead of “/aava” in “the sign of the prophet Jonas” offers a potential
revelation about the nature of Time.

The reason that the letter “¢” is so important is that it has a gematrian value of
200; and this has — to put it mildly — a dramatic effect on the analysis. First, the
symbolic value of la2vac is 1061 (i.e. 10 + 800 + 50 + 1 + 200). Second, the
symbolic value of the “sign of the prophet” increases from 3912 in the case of
“Jonah” to 4112 in the case of “Jonas”. That is:

the sign Jonas of the prophet
To = onpieiov — leavac Tou — mpopntou
370 383 1061 770 1528 = 4112

As will be shown in Chapter 5, the number 1061 is at the very centre of a
remarkable and important section of sacred geometry in the ancient world, while
the number 4112 progresses the analysis into the modern world.

TAn Important consideration here is that the wo names nced not refer to the same individual. In the absence of a
knowledge of gematria, it would be logical to presume that the Jonas in the whale’s belly is also the same as the
prophet Jonah. However, in gematria, such a logical presumption might actually distort the intended message

27

--- PAGE 44 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

SIGNIFICANT PHRASEOLOGY

Looking at the full text of verses 39 and 40 in Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's
Gospel, it is quite obvious that the phrases “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” have a resonance with one another.
In both phrases, important individuals are placed symbolically within
identifiable constructs. Once account is taken of the joint use of the phrase
“three days and three nights”, it is apparent that sentient beings (who?) are being
placed in a particular place (where?) in the context of time (for how long?). The
relationships between the two phrases are obviously going to be important.

By gematria, the numerical value of the phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale”

is 3333. That is:

Jonas in the belly ofthe whale
lavac ev ™ kota Tou — kITOUG
1061 55 308 141 770 998 = 3333

Meanwhile the numerical value of the phrase “the Son of man in the heart of

the earth” is 4248. That is:
the Son of (the) — man in the heart ofthe earth
o uvl0oc Tou avOpamou ev tm Kapdia tHE yne
70 680 770 1510 55 308 136 508 211 =4248
Finally, it can be seen that these two phrases (and hence the numbers 3333 and
4248) are directly linked to each other, not only by the harmonic construction
of the text, but also by the phrase “three days and three nights”. That is, the text

explicitly incorporates the passage of time (i.e. “for how long”). By gematria,
this third phrase has a numerical value of 2586. That is:

three days and three nights
TpEIG = TNMEPAG ka TPEIG = VUKTAG
615 354 31 615 971 = 2586

CONNECTIONS TO GEOMETRY

‘We now need to analyse the connections that are implicit in these three pieces
of text. Initially, however, let us concentrate on the “who” and “where” aspects.
The first important relationship concerns the name “Jonas” and the associated
phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale”. It turns out that the number for “Jonas”
(ie. 1061) is related to the number of the total phrase (ie. 3333) by the
irrational number 3.1416.

28

--- PAGE 45 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

That is, rounded to the nearest whole number:

1061 x 3.1416 = 3333

The number 3.1416 is, of course, well known. It is usually referred to as 1 (=
pi) and is crucial to the calculation of various aspects of a circle. Hence, the
situation is quite clear: we are dealing with the formula for the circumference
of a circle whose diameter is 1061 units. See Figure 4-1.

FIGURE 4-1: JONAS IN THE BELLY OF THE WHALE

This relationship between the numeric value of words and important geometric
constructs is no coincidence. The word “gematria” derives from the Greek word
YecouleTpIa meaning “geometry”, or “measuring the earth”, and the Greek
philosophers readily accepted that natural numbers and natural structures were
intimately related. It should, therefore, come as no surprise to find this close
relationship expressed in the Greek texts of the Christian Gospels.

The second important relationship concerns the connection between the phrase
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” and the name “Jonas”. It turns out that
the number 4248 is also related to the number 1061. The relevant equation is:

4248 = 1062 x 4

Following the same idea as that for the circle, we can deduce that we are dealing
with the formula for the perimeter of a square whose sides are 1062 units in
length. See Figure 4-2.

"There is some debate about how accurately could be calculated 2000 years ago. The evidence is that it could be
calculated very accurately.

29

--- PAGE 46 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Perimeter = 4248

FIGURE 4-2: THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH

The question now is whether or not the one unit difference between 1061 and
1062 is important. In fact, the answer is no. As already mentioned, the prime
function of gematria was to indicate relationships between words and expressions,
in order to draw out hidden associations and symbolic meanings. If, for example,
the numbers for two different words are identical, then it indicates an important
relationship between those words that would warrant further analysis.
Obviously, however, the nature of language and number requires some degree
of flexibility in establishing these relationships. Flexibility was achieved by
allowing one unit to be added or subtracted from the numeric value of a word
without altering its symbolic meaning. This extra unit was known as a colel.

Allowing for the flexibility provided by the colel, therefore, we can deduce that
the phrase “the Son of man in the heart of the earth” can be seen a symbolic
reference to a square whose sides are 1061 units in length.

THE CIRCLE AND THE SQUARE

The fact that the circle of Jonas and the square of the Son of man are both based
on the number 1061 suggests that they should be constructed together. There
are two ways in which this can be done. The first way is to make the square
embrace the circle. See Figure 4-3. This
“squaring the circle”.

, in fact, one version of the concept of

7 The other two versions, which are usually regarded as Deing more important, ar: drawing the square with the same
area as the circle; and drawing the square with the same perimeter as the citcle, The process symbolically matches the
evolution of consciousness: the physical world (the square) becomes equivalent to the spiritual world (the circle)

30

--- PAGE 47 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

FIGURE 4-3; THE SQUARE EMBRACING THE CIRCLE

The alternative method of integrating the two diagrams is to use the diameter
of the circle as the top edge of the square. See Figure 4—4. The diagram in Figure
4-4 is one of the ancient representations of the relationship between the spiritual
world and the physical world.

FIGURE 4-4: THE SPIRITUAL WORLD AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD.

--- PAGE 48 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In ancient cosmology, heaven was represented as a circle and the earth was always
represented as a square.’ Indeed, in St. Matthews text, Jesus refers directly to
“the earth”.

Hence, in the diagram, the spiritual realm penetrates the physical realm. Note,
however, that the penetration is only halfway. In other words, the physical realm is
not completely synchronised with the spiritual realm. This is consistent with Jesus
reference to “an evil and unfaithful generation” — if consciousness was sufficiently
evolved, the sign would have been a squared circle similar to that in Figure 4-3.

THE HEART OF THE EARTH

At this point, there is a specific question that needs to be answered: what exactly
is meant by “the Son of man” being “in the heart of the earth”? It may be
remembered that the name “Jonas” implicated the diameter of the circle. It
would therefore be logical to conclude that “the Son of man” should somehow
refer to the width of the square. And this is, indeed, the case — although the
reference is more subtle than in the case of “Jonas” because the reference is to
the diagonal width. The formula for the diagonal width of a square is given as:

2 x horizontal width

So, in this case, the diagonal of a square whose horizontal width is 1061 is:

1.414 x 1061 = 1500

This is shown in Figure 4-5.

L901

No

1061

FIGURE 4-5: THE DIAGONAL OF A SQUARE

7 This is one of the meanings behind the phrase: “the four corners of the earth”

32

--- PAGE 49 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

On the face of it, this bears no relationship to the phrase “the Son of
man’, whose value by gematria is 3030:

the Son of (the) man
° uloc Tou av6partrou

However, if the width of the square is divided, rather than multiplied, by V2,
the result is 750. That is:

1061 / 1.414 = 750

This is equivalent to ha/fof the length of the diagonal of the square. It thereby
references the point at the very centre of the square — the “heart of the earth” —
where the diagonals intersect. It is also relevant that, in St. Matthew's Gospel,
Jesus appears to refer to himself simply as 0 los (i.e. “the Son”): and the
numeric value of this title is 750. These concepts can be placed together in
Figure 4-6 so that “the Son (of man)” is “in the heart of the earth”.

1061

FIGURE 4-6; THE SON (OF MAN) IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH

Hence, Figures 4-3 and 4-4 can be amended to include this idea. This is done
in Figures 4-7 and 4-8. In the former, “Jonas” (i.e. 1061 as the diameter of the
circle) intersects “the Son” (750, as half the diagonal of the square) in the “heart
of the earth” (the centre of the square). So, the diameter of the circle bisects the
square. In Figure 4-8, on the other hand, “the Son” in “the heart of the earth”
is intersected by the locus of Jonas's circle.

"For example, St. Matthew, Chapter 11, verse 27,

33

--- PAGE 50 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

1061

is,

FIGURE 4-7: DIAMETER OF THE CIRCLE BISECTING THE SQUARE

FIGURE 4-8: THE CIRCLE OF JONAS INTERSECTING THE SON IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH

As the analysis stands, there is no way of knowing for certain which of the two
diagrams in Figures 4-7 and 4-8 was actually the one that was intended by St
Matthew's text. In addition, it can be noted that, although there is a reference in

--- PAGE 51 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

the diagrams to “the heart of the earth” as being the location for the “Son of man’,
there is no comparable reference to “the belly of the whale” for “Jonas” to occupy.

The reason, it turns out, is that neither of the diagrams takes account of time. It
will be remembered that the two phrases “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” were linked by a third phrase, namely
“three days and three nights”. The symbolic value of the latter is 2586. If we now
add this number to each of the numbers 3333 and 4248, the results are as follows:

“Jonas in the belly of the whale three days and three nights” = 5919
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth three days and three nights” = 6834

The conclusions to be drawn from these two numbers are simply extraordinary.
The relationship between them hinges on the fact that:

5919 / V3 = 6834/2
such that:
5919 / 6834 = V3 /2=0.866/1

The ratio 0.866:1 is central to an ancient diagram known as the vesica piscis, or
the “vessel of the fish”.

THE VESSEL OF THE FISH

The vesica is the geometric area that is shared by two circles of equal diameter,
where the centre of each circle is located on the circumference of the other. This
common area looks very much like the outline of a fish. Hence, in Figure 4-9, a
diagram is constructed from a pair of interlocking circles, each with a diameter of
6834 (i.e. the symbolic equivalent of “the Son of man in the heart of the earth three
days and three nights”). Because the horizontal length of the resulting common
area is 0.866 of 6834, the length of the vesica can be no other number than 5919.

In other words, the phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale three days and three
nights” in St. Matthew's text literally refers to the horizontal width of a geometric
symbol known as the “vessel of the fish”. We have a direct visual representation
of Jonas’s location.

The vesica piscis is well known to Christianity, being identified with the man
called Jesus. The reason usually put forward for this relationship is that the first
two letters of the Greek word for “fish” (i.e. YX8us) correspond to the initials of
the Greek for Jesus Christ (ie. Ioous Xpiotos).» However, in 1969 Giorgio
de Santallina and Hertha von Dechend brought attention to the historical

7 More completely, the initials can be ken as an acronym representing the Greek for "Jesus Christ, Son of God, Saviour™

35

--- PAGE 52 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

relationship between astrological ages and mythological symbolism.” Other
researchers subsequently added more evidence."

6834

6834

FIGURE 4-9: THE VESSEL OF THE FISH

Ic seems thar, in the ancient world, it was customary to relate the zodiacal sign
fora particularastrological age w aepecific symbolic representation of God,
Hence, for example, during the Age of Taurus (i.e. 4000 to 2000 B.C.) the
Egyptians of the Old Kingdom employed the symbol of the Sacred Bull of the
Heavens (named Apis), and during the Age of Aries (i.e. 2000 to 1 B.C.) the
Egyptians of the New Kingdom used the symbol of the ram.” We are currently
in the astrological Age of Pisces (by convention, 0 C.E. to date), represented by

® Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Dechend, Hamlett Mill: An Exuay on Myth and the Frame of Time (Gambit,
Boston, 1969). Astrological ages occur because of the phenomenon of she precession of the equinoxzs, caused by the
Earth's wobble. The spring rising point of the sun moves backwards through the Zodiac, changing sign
approximately every 2160 years. There is, however, a great deal of disagreement about the start and end dates of the
various Ages, partly due to the fact that stars in some of the constellations overlap. The Age of Pisces may have
started anytime between 1 A.D. and 500 A.D., and could end anytime between 2062 A.D. and 2720 A.D.

" See, for example, David Ulansey, The Origins of the Mithraic Mysteries (Oxford University Press, London, 1989).
© This raises the question of when ancient societies knew about the prevession of the equinoxes and how they
discovered it. There is evidence that knowledge of the phenomenon is at least 4000 years old. In the transition from
the Age of Taurus to the Age of Aries, for example, the artwork oriented, frst, co killing the bull (at the end of the
Age of Taurus) and, then, progressed to such activities as searching for the ram's fleece (atthe start of the Age of Aries).

--- PAGE 53 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

a pair of fish set head to tail with one another. This means that the vesica piscis
is a perfect vehicle for transmitting the symbolism of the Piscean Age: it is
literally the vessel of the fish; and the fish image can be either left facing or right
facing (see Figure 4-10).»

It can now also be shown that Figure 4-4 and Figure 4-5, showing the potential
relationships between the circle and the square, are both applicable. The use of
two circles in constructing the vesica piscis suggests the accompanying presence
of two squares. These are shown in Figure 4-11 as ABCD and abed. The top
circle can be associated either with the square abed (as in Figure 4-4) or with
the square ABCD (as in Figure 4-5).

FIGURE 4-10: THE PISCEAN IMAGE OF TWO FISHES

"The vesiea pric was not specifically a Christian innovation (sce Chapter 5), Nevertheless, che adoption of the
resca in Christian symbolism undoubtedly marked a new order of understanding, both about the nature of life in
general and about the nature of humankind in particular. With the bull and the ram, God was seen as being an
‘external force assigned 0 the vault of the heavens. With the fish, however, God was seen as being in some way
internal to the experience of life. The vesca represented the point where the external God (The Father — ie. the top
circle) met the internal Life Force (The Holy Spirit — i.e. the lower circle) to become a perfect, God-realised, human
being (The Son). The latter is an accurate description of “the Son of man”, which was essentially a Jewish
conception, Alternative epithets were Adam Kadmon and “Sky Man’. It was taken to mean the archetypal ~ or
“perfect” — man, whose consciousness spanned Heaven and Earth. See Hugh Schonfield, The Exene Odysey
(Element, Shaftesbury (Dorset), 1984).

37

--- PAGE 54 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

A B

d 0}

FIGURE 4-11: DOUBLE CIRCLE AND DOUBLE SQUARE

THE NUMBER 666 AND TIME

This particular representation of the vesica is important because it contains a
reference to the active energy of creation that was discussed in Chapter 3, via
the number 666. This is shown in Figure 4-12, which reflects the dimensions
used in Figure 4-7. Half the width of a circle in the diagram is:

6834 / 2 = 3417

Hence, the height of the rectangle enclosing the two circles is three times this

number. That is:

3417 x 3 = 10,250

--- PAGE 55 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

At the same time, the width of the rectangle is 6834. Hence the ratio of the
width to the height is:

6834 / 10,250 = 0.666"

LLve

_

} =

J oO

E/R

nN} Oo

Ww | °
—

Lie

I 6834 !

FIGURE 4-12: THE 666 RECTANGLE AND THE VESICA PISCIS

It is also important to remember that this particular version of the vesica piscis
emerges when the numerology of “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and “the Son
of man in the heart of the earth” are linked together through the use of the
phrase “three days and three nights”. In other words, the vesica emerges only
once account is taken of the passage of time. Appendix 3 demonstrates how the
dimensions of the vesica in St. Matthew's text can be correlated with gematrian
values for “three days and three nights”.

So, let us recapitulate. We now know that the reference to “Jonas” and to “the
Son of man” in St. Matthew's Gospel is a reference — veiled through the science
of gematria — to an ancient geometric symbol known as the vesica piscis. The
presence of this “vessel of the fish” is confirmed by the explicit reference in the
text to the “belly of the whale”.

Ta gemattia, the ymbolion of the number always overrides the nature oF its presentation ~ that is, decimal points
are ignored,

39

--- PAGE 56 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Furthermore, the symbol is implicitly associated with two aspects of the
phenomenon of Life. First, the vesica is encapsulated by a rectangle whose
dimensions reflect the number 666. It is, therefore, associated with the active
energy of creation. Second, the vesica was generated with the help of the phrase
“three days and three nights”. It is, therefore, associated in some way with the
dimension of time.

We can now look at this revelation in a little more detail.

40

--- PAGE 57 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 5

THE SON OF MAN IN THE
HEART OF THE EARTH

“I believe there was a secret meaning in what [Christ] said; that the Son of
man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”

W. D. Gann

THE NUMBER 1061

In the previous three Chapters, I demonstrated the importance of symbolic
numbers in ancient Greek texts. I also concluded that, in Chapter 12 of St.
Matthew's Gospel, there was a clear textual distinction between the name lava
(ie. “Jonah” in “the sign of the prophet Jonah”) and the name fcavac (Le.
“Jonas” in “Jonas in the belly of the whale”), This distinction is of immense
ce. The addition of the “¢” in the original Greek has the effect of
adding 200 to the gematrian — or symbolic — value of the name.

importa

The symbolic number for “Jonas” is thus 1061; and this number yields either a
circle when it is combined with the spatial number of “the belly of the whale”,
or it yields a square when it is associated with the subject-spatial numbers of
the “Son of man” in “the heart of the earth”.

In addition, I concluded that, once an account was taken of the symbolic
numbers for the passage of time (i.e. 2586), the relationships between the
numbers reveals the presence of a vesica piscis — the vessel of the fish.

It can now be shown that the reference to the passage of time represented a new
philosophical development, and a potential revelation about the structure of the cosmos.

--- PAGE 58 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

To understand this, it is first necessary to analyse the role of the number 1061
in gematria. The important piece of information is that this number is also the
symbolic number for the Greek god Apollo (i.e. AToAAaov). That is:

AtroAAaov = 1+ 80 + 70 + 30 + 30 + 800 + 50 = 1061

In the Greek pantheon, Apollo was the god of light and reason. But the point
here is that he was always associated specifically with two other gods: Zeus (i.e.
Zeuc), the father god who reigned on Mount Olympus; and Hermes (ice.
Enc), the messenger of the gods. The symbolic number of Zeus is 612 and
the symbolic number of Hermes is 353. That is:

Zeuc = 7 +5 + 400 + 200 = 612

Emuns = 5 +100 + 40 + 8 + 200 = 353

The startling fact here is that the numbers 1061, 612 and 353 are related to one
another in two distinct ways. First, they are related by a common ratio. That is:

1061 / 612 = 1.733/1

612 / 353 = 1733/1

Second, and as a result of this relationship, the gematrian number for “Zeus”
(i.e. 612) represents the geometric mean between the numbers for “Apollo” (i.e.
1061) and “Hermes” (i.e. 353). Specifically:

612 = V(106) x 353)

These relationships throw up a striking parallel between the three Greek gods
(placed in the hierarchical order of: Zeus, Hermes, and Apollo) and the
Christian Trinity as analysed in Chapter 2 (i.e. Father, Holy Spirit, and Son).
These parallels are emphasised by the fact that the three Greek gods are linked
together by the ratio 1.733:1, and the three aspects of the Trinity are linked
through the Golden Ratio 1.618:1. In both cases, therefore, a triad of forces are
linked symbolically and mathematically.

THE LAW OF THREE IN GREEK PHILOSOPHY

‘Aswill beshown; Chapter 12 of St, Matthew's Gospel focuses on the difference
between the two presentations and, in doing so, offers a revelation concerning
the nature of time itself. In the meantime, however, the fact that “Jonas” and
“Apollo” have the same symbolic numbers is unlikely to be just a coincidence.
‘The number 1061 links “Jonas” to the god “Apollo”, and therefore assigns to

42

--- PAGE 59 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER S

the former the attributes of latter. But, in linking “Jonas” to the three Greek
gods, it also symbolically linked St. Matthew's text to the Law of Three.

The additional clue here is the ratio 1.733:1, which was of tremendous
importance in Greek philosophy. The number 1.733 itself is virtually identical
to the irrational number V3 = 1.7320508...,: which in turn was an explicit
reference to the importance of the interrelationship of three forces. This
interrelationship was the Greek version of the Law of Three.

There were three main images of these three forces — and therefore of the Law
of Three — in Greek geometry. Each of these images involved the irrational
number V3. The first was the perfect equilateral triangle. In such a triangle, the
lengths of the sides are equal, and the height is V3 multiplied by half the width
of the base. See the left-hand diagram of Figure 5-1. The equality of the sides
emphasised the equivalence of the positive, negative and equilibrating energies
in Creation, Usually, the equilateral triangle was shown in the context of a circle.
Such a triangle would therefore divide the circumference of the circle into three
equal parts. See the right-hand diagram of Figure 5-1. This triangle/circle
combination will be revisited in Chapter 8.

FIGURE 5-1; THE PERFECT EQUILATERAL TRIANGLE

The second image of the Greek Law of Three was the simple formative image of
volume in three-dimensional space — namely, the cube. The square and the cube
were associated with the solidity of matter and of earthly existence. The diagonal
width of a cube, split from one corner to the opposite corner, is measured by
the ratio V3:1. See Figure 5-2.

"The inference aways wa that the number 1.733 was a representation of the value of V3, See Fidler, Jos Chit

43

--- PAGE 60 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

— Oe

NS.

L414

FIGURE 5-2; THE CUBE

But the third image is the most important in the immediate context — it is the
vesica piscis. The vesica, like the perfect equilateral triangle, is defined by the
ratio V3:1. This is shown in Figure 5-3 below. Here, the width of the vesica is
V3 multiplied by the height of the vesica. Despite the use made of the vesica
piscis in Christian symbolism, it had a much earlier origin. It signified the
interaction of opposites, with the area formed by the interlocking circles
representing the region where pre-existent form fused with manifest creation.

FIGURE 5-3: THE VESICA PISCIS AND V3

--- PAGE 61 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

A break with tradition

The seminal work of David Fideler has made it very clear that the number 1061
would automatically evoke the numbers 612 and 353 (with their symbolic
references to the forces of the gods), the ratio V3:1 (with its geometric
implications), and the vesica piscis (with its pre-Christian ideas of the fusion of
opposites).’ As a cross-check, if the width of the vesica is Apollo (1061), then the
height is going to be Zeus (612); and if the width is Zeus, then the height is going
to be Hermes (353). This is precisely why the number 1061 was so important.

So, whilst it could now take modern researchers many hours to disinter the
vesica from any given piece of text, an ancient Greek theologian with a
knowledge of gematria would almost certainly have intuited its presence just
from the number 1061. And, in this case, St. Matthew's text actually emphasises
the presence of the vesica (in the context of the number 1061) by using the
phrase “in the belly of the whale”. Ordinarily, this would have been enough.

In this particular case, however, there was also something else. The initial
construction of the vesica in Chapter 4 used the numbers 5919 and 6834. In
other words, the specific vesica that was hidden within St. Matthew's text
depended, not just on Jonas, but aéso on the Son of man. This suggests that an
important message was intended. The phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale”
was undoubtedly a direct reference to the known geometry of the vesica piscis.
However, the use of the numbers 5919 and 6834 suggests a reference to an
unknown aspect of the vesica deriving from a higher order. If correct, this
represents a major development from tradition.

THE GOLDEN RATIO AT WORK

St. Matthew's text draws all these concepts into focus, but its brilliance lies in using
the associated Greek philosophy and geometry as a stepping stone to a revelation.
As has already been discussed, “the sign of the prophet Jonah” depends for its
interpretation on the relationship between two phrases — namely, “Jonas in the
belly of the whale for three days and three nights” and “the Son of man in the
heart of the earth for three days and three nights”. Each of these phrases consists
of a person, in a place, and for a given length of time. Each phrase, therefore, is
an event that lasts for a fixed period of time. If we calculate the symbolic numbers
for each of the sub-phrases relevant to each event, Table 5-1 emerges.

"Wid.
"The number 1061 was undoubtedly a particularly sacred number.

45

--- PAGE 62 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Jonas event | Proportion of total (%) |Son of man event | Proportion of total (%)
Who 106) 18 3030 44
Where = [2272 38 1218 8
How long | 2586 44 2586 38
Totals 5919 100 6834 100

TABLE 5-1; SYMBOLIC NUMBERS RELATING “JONAS” TO THE “SON OF MAN”

What is interesting here is the existence of specific internal resonances between
the two events. In both events, each sub-phrase represents 18%, 38% or 44%
of the total. Furthermore, note that 18% + 44% = 62%. In the case of the Jonas
event, “who” and “how long” together form 62% of the phrase; while “where”
forms 38%. In the case of the Son of man event, “who” and “where” form 62%
of the total phrase, while “how long” forms 38%. So St. Matthew's text
incorporates the Golden Ratio, 38:62.

In Chapter 2, it was shown that, when looking at energies of Creation within
the context of the Christian scriptures, the active generative force can be
represented by the number 666 and that the passive receptive force can be
represented by 1080. It was also shown that, in relation to their originating
Source, these numbers were reflected, respectively, in the ratios 0.382:1 (i.e.
666:1746) and 0.618:1 (i.e. 1080:1746). The functions of these ratios are not
restricted just to their immediate context, which means that the ratio 0.382:1
can be used to isolate those elements in St. Matthew's text that are “active” in
relation to the hidden message.

Hence, in the case of the Jonas event, the active energy is represented by the
location — i.e. in “the belly of the whale” (see Table 5-1). It has already been
shown that this is true because “the belly of the whale” is a direct reference to
the vesica piscis. If the same logic is then applied to the case of the Son of man
event, the obvious conclusion to be drawn is that the active energy is provided
by the time dimension (see Table 5-1 again). The focus has therefore shifted
from “where” to “how long”.

“JONAH” VERSUS “JONAS” AGAIN

This insight can be validated by another very important symbolic relationship
within the text. But the detail of the text itself first needs some attention. In Chapter
4, I raised the possibility that it might be necessary to reconcile the difference
between “Jonah” in verse 39 and “Jonas” in verse 40, by making them identical.
The whole of the foregoing analysis would, of course, be irrelevant if the name
“Jonas” was reduced to “Jonah”. The mathematical relationships would disappear.

46

--- PAGE 63 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

If, on the other hand, the correct appellation for the prophet was “Jonas” rather
than “Jonah”, then the hugely symbolic number 1061 would be applicable. As
shown in Chapter 4, the gematrian value of “the sign of the prophet Jonas”
would be increased from 3912 to 4112. Although there is no obvious peripheral
evidence that such a reconciliation was intended, the direct evidence from
making the adjustment is compelling.

In Chapter 4, the sign given by Jesus was quite specifically categorised: it
belonged not just to “Jonah”, but to the “prophet Jonah/Jonas”. Hence, the word
mpopntou (i.e. “prophet”) is obviously relevant to the analysis. By gematria,
the value of mpopntou is 1528. This means that the gematrian value for the
epithet “prophet Jonas” becomes (1528 + 1061 =) 2589. This is virtually
equivalent to the number 2586, which is the gematrian value of Tp€I¢ NUEPAS
Kal TPEIG VUKTAG, meaning “three days and three nights”.

Indeed, the flexibility permitted by the colel allows the two numbers to be
matched. Therefore, the phrase “prophet Jonas” has, in effect, the same symbolic
meaning as “three days and three nights”. It also implies that, since the “prophet
Jonas” is interchangeable with “three days and three nights”, “the sign of the
prophet” can be read as being “the sign of the three days and three nights”. In
other words, the text is placing the purpose of “the sign of the prophet Jonas”
within the dimension of time.:

Three important points have thus been established. First, the sign to which Jesus
was referring in St. Matthew's text involves the vesica piscis. Second, however,
the precise form of this vesica was not the traditional one because it is created
using the phrase “the Son of man in the heart of the earth for three days and
three nights’; it therefore implies a new dimension to the symbol. Third, this
additional dimension in some way involved the phenomenon of time. It is now
necessary to establish how the latter expresses itself in the context of geometry.

THE GOLDEN RATIO AND TIME

It was shown in Table 5-1 that once St. Matthew's text is broken down into its
constituent parts the Golden Ratio emerges. For example, the value of the phrase
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” (i.e. 4248) is related to the value of
the total phrase “the Son of man in the heart of the earth, three days and three
nights” (i.e. 6834) by the Golden Ratio. That is:

4248 / 6834 = 0.62

1 There are other wlationships here. For eample, the number for “three days” (Le. 909) is equal, by gematria, to
the number for “nights”, So the phrase could read “three days and three {three days)”, thereby suggesting a period
of (3 + (3 x 3)), or twelve, days. The number 12 is one of the important numbers in the context both of time and
of circular measurement.

47

--- PAGE 64 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

It is the addition of the crucial phrase “three days and three nights” to the
denominator that reveals the presence of the Golden Ratio. Time and the
Golden Ratio are therefore related in some way. Now suppose that the phrase
“three days and three nights” is a literal reference to a specific transit of clock-
time — that is, to a period defined as “three days” followed by “three nights”.
The symbolic number for “three days” (i.e. TEI NUEPAC) is 969 and the
number for “three nights” (ie. TOéIG vUKTAC) is 1586. Hence, the arithmetic
sum of “three days” (i.e. 969) plus “three nights” (i.e. 1586) is 2555, such that:

969 / 2555 = 0.38

1586 / 2555 = 0.62

And this is exactly what is to be expected from the general symbolism of the
words “day” and “night”: the former is associated with light and action, and
therefore with the ratio 0.382:1; the latter is associated with darkness and
passivity, and therefore with the ratio 0.618:1.:

The evolution of thought

However, the critical evidence confirming the influence of the Golden Ratio
lies (again) within the symbolic number for “the sign of the prophet Jonas”. The
fact is that 4112 is bound to the Golden Ratio by the formula:

4112 = (666 x 0.6174) x 10

Hence, “the sign of the prophet Jonas” is defined by the combination of the
active energy of Creation (i.e. 666) and the Golden Ratio (i.e. 0.62).

This last formula isolates something new and important in St. Matthews text.
Although the symbol of the vesica piscis was well known at the time the text was
written in the first century A.D., its relationship to the numbers 666 and 0.618
was essentially a secret. The revelation therefore has two implications. The first
—which is philosophical, but which needs to be highlighted — is that it closes a
loop that the original Greek version of the vesica piscis left open. The symbolic
numbers of Apollo, Zeus and Hermes reflect a continuous proportion in three
b:c). Traditionally, such a proportion represents the use of
1g by analogy and requires the application of a type of intelligence
that is classically human.

See Chapter 2
“ Furthermore, “the sign of the prophet Jonas” is on the same ray as the symbolic numbers 1746, 1080 and 666.
This is because the ratio 411.2:666 is equivalent to 666:1080 and 1080:1746, of 0.618:1.

48

--- PAGE 65 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

This type of proportional relationship is to be distinguished from a simple
proportion in two terms (i.e. a:b), which represents understanding by
comparison. The resulting recognition of “differences” is necessary to Life, but
is not sufficient for human intelligence. The Golden Ratio, however, is a
continuous proportion in two terms (i.e. a:b::b:(a+b)). If this is taken to involve
a jump to a higher order of mental functioning — that is, to the level beyond
comparison and analogy — then the Golden Ratio implies intuitive
understandings, arrived at within the context of a prior Unity. The “sign of the
prophet”, therefore, can be interpreted as an affirmation of the drive within
evolution to create the conditions for higher intelligence.

The second implication, however, may be a genuine revelation: it concerns the
geometry of time itself. Remember that the number 666 is a symbolic number
in Greek gematria. In the double circle diagram of the vesica piscis it arises in
the form of a ratio. However, in gematria, the symbolism of the number always
overrides the nature of its presentation — that is, decimal points are ignored.
This means that, symbolically, “the sign of the prophet Jonas” is equal to 666 x
0.62 and there is only one way to interpret this statement. This is that, for some
reason, the active energy of Creation is to be multiplied by the Golden
Number. The question then is: what exactly does this mean?

Squaring output with input

The active energy within any process can be measured either in terms of what
goes into the process (i.e. inputs) or in terms of what comes out of it (i.e.
outputs). Asa generalisation, it is consistent with the analysis of Chapters 2 and
3 that the number 666 (and hence the ratio 0.382:1) is representative of output
energy, while the number 1080 (and hence the ratio 0.618:1) is representative
of input energy. The logical conclusion, therefore, is that “the sign of the prophet
Jonas” requires that the measured output from any process is multiplied by the
Golden Number.

At the same time, the use of the words “day” and “night” in the phrase “three
days and three nights” is suggestive, respectively, of the processes of activity and
rest. And symbolic numbers often represent energies of some sort. If these two
ideas are put together, it also seems logical that the symbolic number for “three
days” (i.e. 969) can be taken to represent the active process of creation, while the
number for “three nights” (i.e. 1586) might represent the passive, rest, phase of
creation. Then multiplying 969 and 1586 by 0.62 yields the following equation:

(969 x 0.62) + (1586 x 0.62) = 1584

Tn Gregory Bateson’ sense of a “difference which makes a difference”, See Bateson, Mind and Nature.

49

--- PAGE 66 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In other words, the resu/t of the calculation (i.e. 1584) is virtually identical to
the largest number (1586) used in the calculation.

This is a stunning result because it means that, if this equation is transferred onto
a geometric diagram, the result is a square. Each calculation on the left-hand side
of the equation represents a Golden Rectangle — namely, a rectangle of 969 x
0.62 and a rectangle of 1586 x 0.62. If these rectangles are then placed on a chart,
so that their widths are registered horizontally and their heights are measured
ettically, then the sum of cheir widths — when they ate placed contigiioudly ~is
equal to the height of the largest rectangle. This is shown in Figure 5-4.

1586

Thput

200 600 10001400
1586,

FIGURE 5-4: THE INPUT-OUTPUT SQUARE OF 666 AND 0.62

Squaring activity with Time

To repeat: this is stunning. The Jonas event and the Son of man event each have
a particular beginning and a particular end — i.e. each has a specific life span.
Each event transits two rectangles —

. one lasting three days and one lasting
three nights. Each event therefore terminates when a square has been formed.
Indeed, if it is assumed that the vertical axis represents some form of output,
and that the horizontal axis represents an as yet undefined form of input, the
event terminates when output meets input on the 45° diagonal line. The work
of Creation is therefore literally “squared off” and completed when the extent

of creativity is equal to the sum of the creativity in each time frame multiplied
by the Golden Ratio.

As presented, Figure 5-4 assumes that activity is followed by rest. There is,
however, another way of looking at “three days and three nights”. Any active
process in the mundane world is necessarily preceded by a stimulus of some

50

--- PAGE 67 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

sort. This means that the organism has to go through a passive adjustment phase
before its own internal energy is activated. This phenomenon will be revisited
again in Chapter 8, but it means that the Golden Rectangles within Figure 5-4
could be reversed. The outcome is shown in Figure 5-5.

In both diagrams, the phenomenon of time — better written as “Time”, with a
capital “T” — is shown to have an objective dimension. Movement in the manifest
world is related — through the influence of the Golden Ratio — to an unseen
creative energy. This energy is not yet properly known to science; but, by
tradition, it has been known as “spirit”. The phenomenon of Time isa reflection
of the influence of a hidden creative energy.

Output
1600
1400
1200

1000

1586

600
400
200

FIGURE 5-5: THE PASSIVE-ACTIVE SQUARE OF 666 AND 0.62

UNKNOWN SOURCE OF ORDER?

In the original Greek, St. Matthew's “sign of the prophet Jonah/Jonas” consists
of only 48 words.” Even now, it seems extraordinary that such a small number
of words could be used to hold a complex set of geometric diagrams. In ancient
times, these diagrams could only have been exhumed by the select few who had
access to geometry and mathematics. In the early stages of the Christian era,
attention would undoubtedly have focused on the connections between the man
Jesus, the concept of the Son of man, and the image of the vesica piscis. These

* Icis my belief thar this isthe true basis of William D. Gans formula for “squaring price with time”.
’ The number 48 itself is very significant because ~ via the number 12 (ie. 4 x 12 = 48) — it alludes to the heavens
and the zodiac. See Michell, Dimensions of Paradise.

51

--- PAGE 68 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

connections would have been regarded as a natural proof that Jesus was to be
the true representation of the Divine during the Age of Pisces.

But there seems to be something else: hidden in the text are two diagrams that
— even if identified — could not easily have been understood by ancient
geometers. There would have been no context within which to put them. The
first diagram suggests that there is an objective dimension to Time. The second
diagram, which will be addressed shortly, suggests that time-bound natural
processes exhibit a very specific pattern of vibration.

‘Taken together, these two diagrams indicate that St. Matthews text reveals not
just a hidden form of order behind the phenomenon of Life, but a form of order
that modern scientific research does not yet recognise. This conclusion could,
of course, be misplaced; but, if it isn't, either St. Matthew's text is an unbelievably
clever fabrication or science has a paradigm shift to negotiate.

52

--- PAGE 69 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 6

THE STRUCTURE OF THE
MUSICAL OCTAVE

‘A study of the seven-tone musical scale gives a very good foundation for
understanding the cosmic law of octaves.”

P.D. Ouspensky

THE OCTAVE

In Chapter 3, it was argued that the Law of Three is an essential aspect of Life.
It will be shown that this law — which embraces active, passive, and neutralising
forces — is not the only one that is involved with the concept of vibration.
Nevertheless, if it is a fundamental law, it must be present in all aspects of
vibration. One direct way of exploring this idea is to see how it exists within
the vibrations of music — in particular, within the musical octave. This chapter
will therefore analyse the simple mathematics of the octave in search of the Law
of Three and, in so doing, provide a crucial link to Chapter 7.

The first point is that Western music is based on a particular set of notes, centred
on a vibration of 256 cycles per second. This vibration, which is traditionally
referred to as “Middle C” because of its location on a piano keyboard, evokes a
sympathetic response in human beings: the human body literally resonates with
it and harmonises with it.

The second point is that the minimum number of notes that can be used to
create a practical set is eight. This is the octave. The set starts with one note and

"Theo Gimbel, Form, Sound, Colour and Healing (CW. Daniel Company Ltd, Saffron Walden (Essex), 1987).

53

--- PAGE 70 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

ends where the vibration of a note has either doubled or halved. If we use an
octave based on Middle C (hereafter ‘C™'’), the ascending octave stops with a
vibration of 512 cycles per second (at ‘C'"”), and the descending octave finishes
with a vibration of 128 cycles per second (at ‘C!’).

The third point is that each note in the octave bears a constant relationship to
C™. There are therefore six ratios in any particular octave that do not involve
either a doubling or a halving of vibrations. Table 6-1 shows a full set of notes
in an ascending and in a descending octave based on C™'?, together with the
relevant ratios. The vibrations of the descending octave are calculated by using
half the diatonic ratios.

Ascending octave Descending octave

[Note Vibration Ratio to C Note Vibration Ratio to C
oo siz 2 ie 256 1

B 480 1875 B 240 0.9375

A 426.666 1.666 A 213,248 0.8333

G 384 15 G 192 0.75

F 341.333 1.333, F 170.496 0.666

E 320 125 E 160 0.625

D 288 25, i?) 144 0.5625
om 256 1 & 128 Os

TABLE 6-1: THE ASCENDING AND DESCENDING OCTAVE

By tradition, an octave is referred to as being diatonic (from the Greek
diaTovikoc, meaning “through the tones”). Moreover, the musical notes are
referenced by a form of notation, known as the tonic sol-fa — namely, Do, Re
Me, Fa, So, La, Ti, Do.: Table 6-2 shows the ascending and descending octaves,
using the tonic sol-fa.

Ascending octave Descending octave

Note Tonic Sol-fa | RatiotoC Note Tonic Sol-fa | RatiotoC
o Do" 2 c= Do 1

B Ti 1875 B Ti 0.9375

A La 1.666 A la 0.8333

G So 1s G So 0.75

F Fa 1333 F Fa 0.666

E Mi 1.25 E Me 0.625

D Re 125 D Re 0.5625

cn Do 1 1 Do'* 0.5

TABLE 6-2: THE TONIC SOL-FA

‘The tonic sola was originally mivoduced to help sight rea

54

--- PAGE 71 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE STRUCTURE OF THE MUSICAL OCTAVE
CHAPTER 6

THREE INNER OCTAVES

So far, this is standard information. What is not so well known is that a basic
ascending octave contains shree inner octaves. In the ascending octave in Tables
6-1 and 6-2, the move from Do to Do" involves a doubling of vibrations from
256 cycles per second to 512 cycles per second. In other words, there is an
increase in vibrations of 256 cycles per second. As Russell Smith has shown: we
can therefore look at the tonic sol-fa in a slightly different way, using the fact of
an increase of 256 in vibrations, but starting from zero. Although the ratios in
Tables 6-1 and 6-2 hold true when compared with CM! as Do, the ratios are
different when they are calculated in relation to the whole range of vibrations,
from 0 to 256. This is shown in Figure 6-3. The vibrations follow the sequence
0, 1/8, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3, 7/8, 1.

Ascending octave

Tonic Sol-fa Vibrations Ratio within whole
Do! 256 1

Ti 224 0.875

la 170.666 0.666

So 128 0S

Fa 85.333 0.333

Me 64 0.25

Re 32 0.125

Do ) i}

TABLE 6-3: THE TOTALITY OF 256 VIBRATIONS

Table 6-3 contains three important pieces of information concerning the Law
of Three. First, the diatonic octave that covers the whole phenomenon of 0 to
256 vibrations contains three doublings in vibration, starting at Re (32) — that
is, at Me (64), So (128) and Do" (256). Since the basic idea of an octave is the
doubling and halving of vibrations, the whole phenomenon of 0-256 vibrations
can therefore be seen as spanning three octaves starting, respectively, at Re, Me
and So. This is shown in Table 6-4.

The fact that each octave contains three inner octaves reflects the operation of
the Law of Three. Each inner octave represents one of the three creative forces —
active/neutral/passive — that define the Law of Three. Each of the three forces
has to undergo the exigencies of climbing through its own octave. This is not as
easy as it sounds because, as will be shown in Chapter 7, each octave has points
of retardation — or energy gaps — which have to be surmounted. Only the
completion of three successive octaves produces the whole phenomenon.

Russell A. Smith, Gurdjieff: Cosmic Secrets (The Dog, Sanger (Tx), 1993).

55

--- PAGE 72 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

PI AND THE LAW OF SEVEN

Second, these three inner octaves span 22 notes. This is because:
1. Each octave consists of 7 tones;
2. The end of each inner octave is also the beginning of the next octave; and

3. The whole higher level octave can only be complete when the final Do is
struck,

We thus have 21 (3 x 7) notes in the three inner octaves plus the final Do. See
Table 6-4. Importantly, the numbers 22 and 7 reference the classical ratio that
defines the relationship between the circumference of a circle and its diameter.
This ratio, denoted by the Greek letter 1 (or pi), is 22/7.. As Michael Hayes has
demonstrated,’ this ratio links the Law of Three to another law — the Law of
Seven — that is intimately linked to the evolution of cycles and rhythms. The
Law of Seven will be dealt with in the next chapter.

Mr. Hayes’ insight was that the numerator in the ratio refers to the number of
notes in three octaves, and the denominator references the number of intervals,
or tones, in an octave. And, as was shown in Chapter 4, the formula for a circle
can be found in St. Matthew's text in the context of the passage of time."

Third, the range of vibrations can be divided into thirds, also starting at Re —
namely, at Fa (0.333), La (0.666) and Do!" (1.000). These are highlighted in
Figure 6-3. The vibration of Fa is 85.333 cycles per second, that of La is 170.666
cycles per second, and the vibration of Do"! is 256 cycles per second. The
vibrations are thus 85.333 cycles per second apart. See Table 6-4. As will be
shown in Chapter 8, these points are important to an understanding of
inflexions within any genuine cycle.

SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE IN FINANCIAL
MARKETS

In Chapter 14, I shall deal with the triple octave within the context of Mr.
Gann's approach to cycles. Here, it can be noted that Mr. Gann appears to have
used the ratios within an octave to calculate points at which a financial market
trend might hesitate or reverse. The first step was to divide trading ranges into

TThe quotient of the ratio 20/7 & 3.140857... etc. However, the more precise representation of 7B
3.14159265358979... etc. It is also relevant that, first, the gematrian value for 1s 80, so that 8 + 0 = 8 (the notes in
a complete octave) and that, second, ris the 16th letter of the Greek alphabet, so that 1 + 6 = 7 (the tones in an octave).
* Michael Hayes, The Infinite Harmony: Musical Structures in Science and Theolegy (Weidenfeld and Nicolson,
London, 1994).

“Ie seems appropriate that the Greek word for “circle” — xvxAoc — also means “cycle”

56

--- PAGE 73 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE STRUCTURE OF THE MUSICAL OCTAVE

CHAPTER 6

eighths and thirds’ in order to isolate potential support and resistance levels.
The second step was to focus on halvings and doublings — in terms both of
retracements and of absolute moves — on the grounds that they were potential

reversal points.

Whole phenomenon Triple octave
Tonic Sol-fa Vibration Tonic Sol-fa Vibration
Do" 256 Do* 256
Ti 240
Ti 224
|
La’ 213.333
So’ 192
la 170.666 Fa’ 170.666
Me 160
Re’ 144
So 128 Do’ 128
TF 120
Ta 106.666
50° 96
Fa 85.333 Fa? 85.333
Me 80
Re’ 72
Me 64 Do? 64
Ti 60
La! 53.333
So’ 48
Fa’ 42.666
Me! 40
Re 36
Re 32 Do’ 32
Do 1)

TABLE 6-4: THE WHOLE PHENOMENON AND THE TRIPLE OCTAVE

Since the purpose of this book is to focus on the dynamics of human behaviour
rather than to isolate profitable trading techniques, these ideas will not be

My own research suggests that the 38.2% and 61.8% levels are more important, Mr. Gannis use of thirds may have
been related ro his caution about advertising the power of the Golden Ratio.

57

--- PAGE 74 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

analysed here. Nevertheless, it is worth emphasising the importance of 50% and
100% moves. The former would be the full extent of a descending octave and
the latter would be the full extent of an ascending octave. Of the two, Mr. Gann
considered that a halving was far and away the most powerful in terms of its
potential for a reversal." Falls of 50% were, for example, experienced in equity
markets during the financial collapse of 2007-09.

The point is that a completed octave would be a natural stopping point in a trend,
and an extension of the trend would therefore require some form of additional
energy to move it onwards. This is why — uniquely — changes in government policy
can be so important after a doubling or halving: an expansionary policy can help
to extend an advance or halt a fall. Conversely, however, a failure to act
appropriately, or at all, can stop an advance or extend a fall

THE OCTAVE AND THE LAW OF THREE

There is much more that could be said about the diatonic octave, not least
because the notes Mi and So of each inner octave will form the starting point
for octaves of even finer vibration.» The immediate conclusion, however, is that
the eight notes of an octave contain three inner octaves, or sections; and this, in
turn, specifically implies that any complete phenomenon can be seen in terms
of three phases.

Hence, we have two distinct concepts relating to the Law of Three: one where
the third element is not obvious; and one where it is. First, all oscillations
between the active and passive polarities in a natural system are organised by a
hidden reconciling force (Chapter 3). Second, a natural process will evolve in
three clear stages (this Chapter). As will be shown, each of these three stages can
be classified in terms of their active, passive and reconciling functions.

The interplay of these two perspectives on the Law of Three has great relevance
to an understanding of cyclical behaviour. In particular, the Law of Three co-
arises and co-exists with another fundamental law of the universe that can be
found in the octave. Mr. Gurdjieff called it the Law of Seven. This is the law
that is the essence of William Gann’s law of vibration.

See, for example, William D. Gann, 45 Years in Wall Street (Library of Gann Publishing Co., Pomeroy (Wa), 1949)
y own research suggests thar a 50% fall or retracement in broad equity indices is probably the only point where
direct government intervention can reverse a trend.
Interested readers are referred to Smith, Gurdjieff

58

--- PAGE 75 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 7

THE LAW OF SEVEN

“He had learnt that the 7th’ was a sacred day, and had often talked to Marie
about the number 7, and the number of times it was spoken of in the Bible.”

W.D. Gann

“Even our division of time, that is, the days of the week into work days and
Sundays, is connected with the same properties and inner conditions of our
activity which depend upon the general law [of octaves].”

P.D. Ouspensky

UNCOMMON KNOWLEDGE

Current scientific methodology does not allow much deviation from the
constraint of accepted wisdom. Our understanding of reality can therefore only
proceed through a kind of common consensus, where people accept something
as being true because others do as well. This understanding is passed on through
parents, peer groups and professional educators. All reality testing is done within
the framework of this common consensus, so that paradigm shifts — fundamental
changes in beliefs — only occur when there is a crisis of some sort. Such a crisis
may take the form of an overwhelming number of observations failing to accord
with reality, or it may take the form of a contradiction in the theoretical
framework of a belief system. Either way, progress can be painfully slow.

"Thomas Kuhn, The Theory of Scientific Revolutions (University of Chicago Press, Chicago (IIL), 1962). A paradigm
is not just a set of ideas. It is an actual research practice that generates data. New paradigms are therefore a response
to contradictory data brought up by old paradigms. They also disclose new data in their own right.

* Even where research has clearly established a new paradigm, large numbers may still be convinced that the old

59

--- PAGE 76 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Hence, new ideas — or old ideas, newly presented ~ are likely to encounter strong
emotional resistance, particularly if the ideas are derived from a totally different
culture or context. Sometimes, however — and despite the potential hostility —
the ideas are sufficiently extraordinary to warrant their disclosure. So it is with

The Law of Seven.

This fundamental law, and the teaching diagram used to communicate it,’ has
probably been known to humanity for thousands of years. However, it is also
likely that — because knowledge represents power — the details of the law (and
its associated cosmogony) have periodically been suppressed by those who
presume to authority over others. In any case, the Law of Seven has been
generally unknown in the West until well into the last century, but it is now
making a reappearance.

It appears initially to have been brought to the attention of Western thinkers
during the inter-war years by George Gurdjieff, Subsequently, a number of
associates — notably Pyotr Ouspensky,: John G. Bennett, Kenneth Walker: and
Charles S. Nott — devoted a great deal of time to analysing the implications
and applications of the law. Their findings were released into the public domain
during the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. Even more recently, others ~ such as Oschar
Ichazo' and Robert Campbell — appear separately to have found the same
phenomenon and have also chosen to disclose it. So the workings of this alleged
cosmic law are no longer a secret.

UNIVERSAL VIBRATIONS

The Law of Seven is the law that regulates vibrations and cycles. Its first assertion
is that everything in the universe vibrates. In the modern era, when theoretical
physicists are wrestling with the concepts of String Theory,” this statement does
hot seem especially strange. However, in the older, more mechanical, billiard
ball world of Newtonian physics, the idea would have been regarded as absurd.

The second assertion of the Law of Seven is that vibrations stimulate movement
elsewhere. This means that, first, every cause is itself a vibration and that, second,

‘Chuncr theories are actually He truth, Tn fact, while the emotions ofa Tange majority are actively engaged in following
a particular belief system, that majority is likely to persecute individuals with alternative information. John Stuart
Mill once observed that even the most self-evident axiom would cause a war if it threatened someone's beliefs

"See Chapter 8.

‘Ouspensky, Jn Search.

‘John G. Bennett, Enneagram Studies (Coombe Springs Press, Masham, 1974).
“Kenneth Walker, A Sudy of Gurdjieff Teaching (Jonathan Cape, London, 1957).

Charles $. Nott, Journey Through This World (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1969).
* Reported in Claudio Naranjo, Enmea-Type Structures (Gateways/IDHHB ine, Nevada City (Ca.), 1990),

° Robert Campbell, Fisherman Guide: A Stems Approach to Creativity and Organization (Shambhala, Boston (Ma. 1985).
See, for example, Shing-Tung Yau and Steve Nadis, The Shape of Inner Space: String Theory and the Geometry of
the Universes Hidden Dimensions (Basic Books, New York, 2010).

60

--- PAGE 77 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF SEVEN
CHAPTER 7

every cause will have a history and will have an effect that depends on that
history. The third assertion of the Law of Seven is that, once a movement (i.e.
an effect) has been initiated, it will be subject to retardations, or energy gaps, at
two very precisely-defined points in its evolution.” After the second energy gap,
the movement will be travelling in precisely the opposite direction from that in
which it started and, after the process has repeated, the movement will return
to travelling in its original direction. See Figure 7-1. In other words, movement
tends to occur in cycles.

2nd Energy Gap

g

1st Energy Gap => —————

<—$ © 3d Energy Gap

t

Initial Impulse
and
4th Energy Gap

FIGURE 7-1: THE FOUR ENERGY GAPS IN A CYCLE

Figure 7-1 is somewhat misleading in the sense that it implies that both energy
gaps in a successive pair of energy gaps are similar in nature. As we shall see in
the next chapter, this is not correct. Crossing the first energy gap involves an
evolution through the re-structuring of information that is already within a
system, but crossing the second energy gap involves evolution through the input
of new information from outside the system." The very nature of cycles involves
a successful crossing of the first gap and a failure to cross the second one. Figure
7-1 only states therefore that four important points have to be confronted for a
cycle to complete itself.

T This & a slight oversimplification. The Law of Seven states that the vibrations develop discontinuously, with
accelerations, as well as decelerations at specific points. However, itis the decelerations that are important in the
current context. For fuller details see, for example, Walker, Gurdjieff’ Teaching.

°-The idea that four points of deviation have to be passed through to complete of cycle is one of the hidden
meanings behind the concept of squaring a circle

"That is, it involves a paradigm shif.

61

--- PAGE 78 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

VIBRATION AND TIME

The importance of cycles is that they literally retard the effects of the passage of
time. Time is usually measured in relation to the movement of the moon around
the Earth, and of the Earth around the sun, But the phenomenon of Time is the
irreversible process of change; some have called it the “arrow of time”, implicitly
aligning it with self-organising systems; others have called it “energetic
causation”, thereby explicitly equating it with an energetic process." Since change
basically involves the dissolution of prior states, Time is intimately linked with
the movement towards entropy, or chaos. The operation of the Law of Seven (or
law of vibration) retards the collapse into chaos. In other words, cycles slow the
process of change.

This retardation can be viewed in either of two ways: cycles either insert a rest
period into the process of creation, or they insert a period of creativity into the
natural drawdown into chaos. In both cases, the process between beginning and
end becomes elongated. Indeed, although difficult to conceptualise, it can be
argued that Time is curved in a long cycle," which lasts from initial impulse to
final accomplishment.” This Cycle of Time, which is a function of creative
energy, contains and controls all subordinate cycles."

The Law of Seven is so called for two distinct, but related, reasons. The first of
these derives from the fact that the law is indeed a direct expression of the
relationships between musical notes in an octave. Specifically, the existence of
two critical energy gaps can be found within the seven gaps between the eight
notes of a musical octave.” The second reason why the law is called the Law of
Seven is that its working can be explained with the help of a geometric diagram
whose interrelationships are defined by the nwmber seven. We shall look at each
of these in turn. The rest of this chapter will outline the Law of Seven within
the context of the musical octave and the next chapter will explore the relevant
geometric diagram.

See, for example, Peter Coveney and Roger Highfidd, The Arrow of Time (WH. Allen, London, 1990). The
authors propose that Time is the factor that draws together unpredictable parts into a predictable whole, which
implicitly equates Time with self-organising systems and with some form of equilibrating energy. However, Time is
better regarded as a restriction on existence. In this context, the Law of Seven regards Time as being the movement
from one state of being to another. It therefore explicitly equates Time with change.

“Alfred North Whitehead, Process and Reality (Free Press, New York, 1969)

This has been called “The Cyde of Exernity”. Boris Mouravieff, Gnosis (Praxis Instinute Press, Newbury (Ma,), 1992)
© This cycle is reiterated at all levels of being for humanity. It operates through history in the evolution of
consciousness; it operates physically in the form of an individuals life cycle; and it operates psychologically in personal
development. For a detailed analysis of this process, see Ken Wilber, The Arman Project (Quest Books, Wheaton
(IL), 1989).

"There is obviously a big qui

"Seven tones and ci

here about the nature of this creative energy. See Chapter 3.
1 notes because ‘Do’ appears twice in an octave

62

--- PAGE 79 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF SEVEN
CHAPTER 7

THE LAW OF SEVEN AND THE MUSICAL OCTAVE

The Law of Seven controls the formation both of vibrations and of sound. This
follows logically — in the sense that, if it controls one, then it must control the
other — because all vibration creates sound waves.” Since everything vibrates, it
follows that the whole universe is saturated with sound waves. Most of these
waves are either so high or so low in pitch that they are outside the normal
hearing range of the human ear; but being unable to hear the vibration does
not mean that the vibration does not exist in the first place.

One of the essential qualities of vibration is that — if it interacts with its
environment* ina periodic or rhythmic manner» — it will strike a musical note.
As mentioned in Chapter 6, one of the most important is ‘Middle C’ of the so-
called diatonic scale.» Middle C (hereafter, “C™'’) is the note that sounds when
a vibration of 256 cycles per second is started, and it has been found that the
human body responds to it.»

Other notes harmonise with CM" via a series of ratios. The note that has double
the vibration of C™' will be eight notes higher, and the note that has half of
the vibration will be eight notes lower. A set of eight notes is thus the basis of
the diatonic octave. This is shown in Table 7-1, which reproduces some of the
information from Chapter 6.

In theory, this octave is based on the musical proportion 6:8:9:12, which is
known as the perfect fourth. In terms of the vibration rates given in Table 7-1,
this is equivalent to 256:341.33, or 384:512. This proportion also encompasses
the other perfect harmonic ratios of Western music — namely, the octave itself
(i.e. 6:12) and the perfect fifth (i.e. 6:9 or 8:12). It has been found that these
ratios, being perféct, are universal. They provide the framework for music of all
cultures, even though these cultures may use different syntaxes and different
intervals, and prefer different tuning systems.” The direct implication is that
music reflects universal laws of harmony.

Points of deceleration

The diatonic octave is important because it contains within it the essence of the

™Or, more precisely, longitudinal waves (as opposed to transverse light waves) that have the potential for being heard
"The ancient teaching behind the Law of Seven is that all vibration and all sound — whether hidden or not ~ is

sourced in God. Hence, sound is one of the main characteristics of the initial creative emanation of God — known

to Christianity as the Holy Spirit. This is why religions refer to the phenomenon as “The Word” or “The Sound

Current”, Ivis thought to resound through the universe, bearing with it the essence and characteristics of its Source.
A solid, liquid or gaseous medium.

"See Itzhak Bentov, Stalking the Wild Pendulum (Wildwood House, London, 1978).

“Middle C is so called because it is physically closest C to the middle ofa piano keyboard. Guy Murchie, Music of

the Spheres (Dover Publications, New York, 1961), The discovery of the diatonic scale is attributed to Pythagoras.

“Gimbel, Form, Sound, Colour and Healing

“Sigmund Levarie and Ernst Levy, Tone: A Study in Musical Acoustics (Kent State University Press (Kent), 1980).

63

--- PAGE 80 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Law of Seven. The law indicates that progress upwards through the octave
decelerates at two precise points. This can be expressed in either of two ways.
First, the octave consists of seven different tones (i.e. gaps between notes), but
only five semi-tones. Hence, two semi-tones are missing — namely, those between
E and F and between B and C"! (see Table 7-1). In the terminology of the tonic
sol-fa, progress upwards through the octave is retarded between Me and Fa, and
between Ti and Do".

Second, and in another way of making the same point, there are seven points of
potential change in vibration between the eight notes in the octave — namely
C-D, D-E, E-F, F-G, G-A, A-B, and B-C"". In Table 7-1, the vibrations are
given in column 6 as ratios, with the rate of vibration of the note C as the
numeraire. The difference between ratios, upwards through the octave, is
retarded at E-F and at B-C".

Note |Semi-tone | Tonic Solfa | Tonal Vibrations Relation to C
Cycles/second | Difference |Ratio _| Difference

Sa Do" 512 2

B Ti 480 32 1.875 0125

A At La 426.666 $3.333 1.666 |0.209

G GH So 384 42.666 1S 0.166

F FH Fa 341333 42.66 1.333 0.166

E Me 320 21.333 1.25 0.083

D O# Re 288 32 1125 0.125

c cH Do 256 32 1 0.125

TABLE 7-1: THE DIATONIC SCALE AND THE TONIC SOL-FA

This retardation, or deceleration, is also very clear if we plot either the
cumulative amount of the difference between vibrations, or the difference
between the ratios, in the octave. See Figure 7-2. There is a marked moderation
in the upward slope of the graph between E and F (i.e. Me and Fa) and then
between B and Cl" (i.e. Ti and Do").

The octave and the solar system

These decelerations obviously interrupt the smooth advance of vibrations up
through the octave. It’s as if the process falls into a gap of some sort. At one
level, this may seem to be no more than an interesting function of the way that
musical notes are structured. However, the phenomenon announces its ubiquity
by presenting itself in the most unlikely of places. The solar system, for example,
appears to contain parallel dislocations within the orbits of the planets.

This is shown below in Table 7-2, which measures the average distances from
the sun of each of the planets excluding the Earth. On this presentation, the
solar system consists of eight planets plus the asteroid belt that lies between Mars

64

--- PAGE 81 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF SEVEN
CHAPTER 7

and Jupiter.” If the sun is assumed in some way to act as the note Do, such that
it initiates an octave, then that octave appears to be complete at Uranus.

: we
tanta

up| secoraaasateaancnas Se] 1
vos j
. wef
2 as ) §
i et
1398 z

si

1s na

‘ ;

i [ae
does osc peeat

FIGURE 7-2: THE SLOWDOWN POINTS

The important point is that the ratio of the distances between successive planets
and the sun is essentially a constant of 1.85, except for Venus-Mars and Uranus-
Saturn where the ratio is in excess of 2.00. Hence an increase in the ratio of
distances occurs precisely where the diatonic octave predicts that they should
occur — namely, between Me and Fa, and between Ti and Do".

Note in octave [Planet [Average distance from sun (m miles) [Ratio of distances
Do Sun
2_|Re Mercury [36.25
185
s__|Me venus 6720
210
[Fa Mars 1a1.68
1.84
[5 [So Asteroid belt [26100
185
é | Jupiter 48400
nes
7_|t Saturn [g8710,
201
8 [Do" Uranus 1783.90
9 Neptune [2796.30 _|

TABLE 7-2: THE ENERGY GAPS IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM

‘The average distance of the asteroid belt from the sun is calculated trom Bode’s Law. In 1772, Johann E. Bode

65

--- PAGE 82 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The implications of the planetary octave within our solar system obviously lie
far beyond the scope of this book. Nevertheless, the existence of such a clear
parallel with the diatonic octave attests to the latter's extraordinary ubiquity. In
particular, it confirms the natural existence of very precisely defined points of
retardation within non-linear systems. According to the Law of Seven, these
points of deceleration are critical both to our understanding of the interaction
of living organisms with their environment and to the unfolding of the
associated cyclical behaviour. It is to this phenomenon that we now turn.

Tormulated this law and predicted that there should be a planet between Mars and Jupiter. This space is now known
to be filled by the asteroid belt. This suggests that the asteroid belt is either a planet that has been destroyed or debris
that was unable to accrete into a planet. Bode’s Law works only for planets up to Uranus. Neptune and Pluto do
not adhere to Bode's calculations.

"These observations raise some interesting questions. The Earth orbits between Venus and Mars, and therefore in
some way fills the gap between those two planets. What, therefore, is the Earth's function within the octave of the
Solar System? Meanwhile, the Earth has an average distance of 93 million miles from the sun, which means that
the ratio of that distance to Venus’ distance from the sun is just over 1.38 and the ratio of Mars’ distance from the
sun (0 that of the Earth is just under 1.62. Does this mean that the influence of the Golden Ratio extends into the
relationship between the Earth and its neighbouring planets? Finally, Neptune lies beyond the sun-Uranus octave
(and outside of the mathematics of Bode’ law). Does this mean that it somehow starts a new octave?

66

--- PAGE 83 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 8

THE OCTAVE AND
THE ENNEAGRAM

“T believe that a man who understands the meaning of that has all the power
under heaven and earth.”

W.D. Gann

“The understanding of this symbol and the ability to make use of it give man
very great power.”

P.D, Ouspensky

A TEACHING DIAGRAM

In Chapter 3, it was proposed that oscillations in the universe were subject to
the interplay of three creative forces. In Chapter 4, it was shown that the circle
seemed to have a central role to play in part of the hidden knowledge of the
ancients. In Chapter 6, it was argued that the laws governing the pattern of
vibration were implicit in the musical octave and in the circle-related ratio, 22/7.
In Chapter 7, a theoretical base was laid for the defining vibrations in terms of
the interplay of energy gaps, as revealed in the musical octave.

‘These three ideas — of three forces, energy gaps and a circle — now need to be
pulled together into a model that can generate cyclical oscillations. This model
is known as the enneagram.

67

--- PAGE 84 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The enneagram has been known about in the West for less than 100 years,
although it has a significantly longer history of influence. It was specifically used
by George Gurdjieff in the 1920s to instruct his pupils, but it reached a wider
audience after one of those pupils — Pyotr Ouspensky — produced a written record.

The enneagram derives its name from the Greek word €vved. or ennea, meaning
nine. It consists of an outer circle and an inner triangle, and a six-lined pattern
that is both contained by the circle and controlled by the triangle. See Figure 8-
1 below. The teaching behind the diagram is that it is an accurate representation
of every vibration within the universe, at all hierarchical levels, and over all time
periods. It is powered (if that is the right word) by an energy that is currently
unknown to science and is thus the representation of a sacred truth.: More
prosaically, it is the representation of perpetual motion through eternity.

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-1; THE ENNEAGRAM

MOVEMENT AROUND THE ENNEAGRAM

The outer periphery of the enneagram is a circle whose circumference is divided
into nine equal segments. The division between each segment of the

‘See, for example, Walker, Gurdjieff Teaching.

*Ouspensky, Jn Search.

‘The numeric value, by gematria, of enned (evvear) is 111, The three equal unities reference the Law of Three. And,
of course, 1 + 1 + 1 = 3.

‘ Ouspensky, In Search.

68

--- PAGE 85 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

circumference is given a number from 1 to 9. See Figure 8-2. The northern
point — which coincides with the apex of the triangle — is usually given the
number 9. The numbers | to 8 are then placed at equal distances around the
circumference of the circle. As was observed in Chapter 3, the number 9
represents initiation and completion — that is, the start and the finish. Hence, a
movement around the circle in a clockwise direction, starting with 9 and ending
with 9, represents a complete cycle.

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-2: MOVEMENT AROUND THE CIRCUMFERENCE OF THE ENNEAGRAM

However, the circle also represents a spiral. Viewed from above, the movement
appears as a circle; but viewed from the side, the movement may be seen as a
spiral. See Figure 8-3.

FIGURE 8-3: THE CIRCULAR SPIRAL AROUND THE OUTSIDE OF THE ENNEAGRAM

This is an oversimplification, but the point 9 that represents completion certainly
has a higher level of vibration than the point 9 that represents initiation. Hence,

69

--- PAGE 86 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

acomplete movement around the circle represents an evolution in quality as well
as a movement in quantity. This idea of evolution means that point 9 is
sometimes also denominated point 0. In this way it is made clear that the
movement from 0 to 9 represents some form of progress.

The importance of the enneagram, however, lies not 07 the circle but inside it.
Specifically, the movement of energy — which forces the cycle around the
periphery of the circle — does not actually progress sequentially from point 9
(or point 0) back to point 9. The energy instead flows from point to point
around the diagram in the repeating sequence, 1-4-2-8-5-7. This is represented
by the six arrowed lines within the circle in Figure 8-4.

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-4: THE MOVEMENT OF ENERGY WITHIN THE ENNEAGRAM

This movement of energy is the most important aspect of the Law of Seven, but
it is also the most difficult to understand. Therefore, before looking at the
process in more detail, it might be useful to demonstrate how it looks if it is
shown in a two-dimensional diagram that explicitly includes time. Let us assume
that a point on the enneagram with a higher number represents (in some sense)
a more evolved state than a point with a lower number.

Then, if we translate the number sequence 1-4-2-8-5-7 into a two-dimensional
diagram that relates each number to its occurrence at a specific moment in time,
the result is as shown in Figure 8-5 below. At time 1, the process is at point 1
on the circle; at time 2, the process is at point 4; at time 3, it is at point 2; at
time 4, it is at point 8; and so forth. The movement takes no account of the
time units used, or of distances travelled. Nevertheless, the fundamental pattern

70

--- PAGE 87 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

traced out by the enneagram is that of a three-up/three-down movement. And
this pattern is precisely the one that, in the 1980s, I had suggested existed in
financial markets. I called it the price pulse.

Movement
around
enneagram

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Time

FIGURE 8-5: THE ENNEAGRAM PULSE

THE ENNEAGRAM AND THE LAW OF SEVEN

We can now look at the interaction of the enneagram and the Law of Seven in
more detail. It was stated earlier that there are essentially two reasons why the
law of vibration was named the Law of Seven. The first derives from the law's
relevance to (and its analogy with) the musical octave. The octave is not only a
truly natural phenomenon; it is also a metaphor for the process of
transformation and change. Specifically, evolution can be described by a
sequence of seven steps between eight points, Hence, an initial impulse
(metaphorically described as Do) is then followed by seven separate steps —
namely, Do-Re, Re-Me, Me-Fa, Fa-So, So-La, La-Ti and Ti-Do'". The whole
process involves an increase in vibrations and the process is complete when (or

if) the vibrations double.

"Plummer Forecasting Financial Markets

“At this point, however, the process also begins again ~ but on a higher level ~ because, in order for the vibrations
to double, a new impulse (Do!) has to occur. This new impulse arises from outside the closed system of the original
yele, In other words, evolution is controlled by, and harmonises with, the environment

ral

--- PAGE 88 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

However, as was shown in Chapter 7, the Law of Seven clearly states that the
vibrations do not increase at a constant rate; rather, the increase accelerates and
decelerates at very specific points. In the context of cycles, it is the points of
deceleration that are the most important. The Law of Seven states that the
vibrations will decelerate at two of the seven steps after the initial impulse —
namely, between the equivalents of the steps Me-Fa and Ti-Do!! — thereby
introducing energy gaps into the process of growth. This is a fundamental law
of the universe.

The second reason why the Law of Seven has been given its name relates not to
the steps between the notes in the octave, but to the relationship between the
initial stimulus and the subsequent six energy points in the enneagram. As has
already been mentioned, energy flows around the enneagram in the sequence
1-4-2-8-5-7. This recurring sequence of numbers can be found within the result
of dividing unity by the number seven. That is:

1/7 = 0142857142857"

The sequence also emerges when the triple octave of 22 is divided by the seven
tones in an octave. That is:

22/7 = 3142857142857

So, if unity, or the three octaves that create unity, are divided by seven, the result
is the sequence of numbers that describe the How of energy around the enneagram.

The number 7 has a variety of unique features that were taken by early religious
authorities to be very meaningful. Of these, two in particular were important.
First, the number 7 cannot be derived as the product of two other whole
numbers (other than unity and the number 7 itself). Second, the number 7
cannot be divided by any other number (other than itself) to yield a whole
number. For these two reasons, the number 7 was known as the virgin number
and was seen as representing the Eternal.

THE ENNEAGRAM AND THE LAW OF THREE

We can now return to the details of the enneagram itself, Following the arrows
around the diagram, it can be seen that the flow does not include points 9 (or
0), 3, or 6. See Figure 8-6. These points have a specific function, which needs
some explanation.

Dividing any number by seven will reveal the presence of this same sequence, although it would not necessarily
scart with 1.
* See, for example, Michell, Dimensions of Paradise.

72

--- PAGE 89 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-6: THE TRIANGLE WITHIN THE ENNEAGRAM

As normally presented, points 9 (or 0), 3 and 6 are joined together to form a
triangle This confirms that they are related. In fact, the three points represent
the active-passive-reconciling forces of the Law of Three, which were discussed
in Chapter 3. At the start of the process around the enneagram, point 9/0
represents the initial stimulus from outside the energy circuit. Point 3 then
automatically represents the active force of the initial stimulus, but within the
energy circuit, and point 6 represents the passive force of that stimulus, again
within the energy circuit.

To complete the balance, point 9/0 also assumes the responsibility of the
reconciling force within the energy circuit.” The enneagram thus incorporates
both the law of reconciled opposites (the Law of Three) and the law of vibration
(the Law of Seven): it reconciles the spiral of evolution with the cycle of
recurrence. As we shall now see, the reconciliation comes about as a result of
the response to information shocks.

If we continue to use the analogy of the tonic sol-fa, the note Do occurs at point
9/0 and starts the cyclical process moving. This can be viewed as the initial shock,
or the initial creative act. Successive points around the circumference of the
circle — Re, Me, Fa, etc. — represent the attempt of the system to transform its
energies into higher notes, or higher vibrations. That is, they represent the
process of evolution as a response to the initial creative act. However, the internal
dynamics of the evolutionary process are not smooth. The flow of internal

*Ouspensky, In Search,
© This is consistent with the argument presented in Chapter 2 ~ namely, chat the creative force also reconciles the
associated active/ passive pol

73

--- PAGE 90 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

energy stands at point 1 (or Re) after the initial shock, but then it jumps to
point 4 (or Fa). This jump is too much for the system, which then begins to
fade. In other words, there is an energy gap (see Figure 8-7) that restricts the
smooth transition from one level of vibration to the next.

First
energy gap

5 4
(So) (Fa)

FIGURE 8-7: THE FIRST ENERGY GAP

The movement between points 1, 4, 2 and 8 therefore exhibits a three-wave
pattern. Accordingly the energy flow drops back to point 2 (or Me). It is during
this drop — which traverses point 3 (the gap between Me and Fa) on the
enneagram — that extra energy, or information, has to be received. Otherwise
the process stops. The extra information shock is, in fact, provided at this point
by the active force of the initial stimulus at point 3. When it has been received,
the energy flow can jump to point 8.

THE PATTERN OF LEARNING

This pattern is the basic profile of adjustment that all self-organising systems
have to undergo in response to perceived changes in their environment. It
reflects the threefold process of:

1. The initial learning response to new information;
2. The consolidation and restructuring of internal response mechanisms; and

3. The application of new learnt abilities to the receipt of further information.

--- PAGE 91 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

In terms of the system's relationship to its environment, these three phases may
be denoted as being active, passive and reconciled. In the first phase, the system
responds dynamically to the receipt of new information. The system moves as
far as it can under its old structure but does not yet change that structure. In
the middle phase, the system becomes passive and allows external energy to
reorganise it and thereby create change. This passivity is usually marked by a
drop in the index being used to measure the internal energy of the system. But,
critically, the re-structuring cannot take place unless a higher degree of energy is
input." Finally, the system can adopt a neutral relationship to the environment,
adjusting quickly and easily to additional information as it becomes available.

This adjustment process mirrors the archetypal learning pattern proposed by
Henry Mills.» See Figure 8-8. Learning is a form of mutation as energy is
diverted away from the receipt of new information towards re-structuring the
internal automatic response systems. This automation of the ability to respond
represents the acceptance, or internalisation, of a paradigm shift. As a corollary,
the movement after this internalisation process does not represent true learning
in the sense of further structural adjustments — it merely represents the ability
of the organism to respond quickly and effectively to further information.

Ability
to use new
information

¢ Learning >< Learnt >

Time

FIGURE 8-8: THE THREE-PHASE LEARNING PROCESS

7 How a system accepts the need to change its structure, and is then able to do so with the help of external’ energy,
is not yet understood.
"Henry Mills, Teaching and Training (Macmillan, London, 1967).

75

--- PAGE 92 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The processes involved in this mutation are still not fully understood. Donald
Hebb proposed that the adjustment involves the transfer of information from
short-term memory to long-term memory. The former depends on electrical
impulses within the brain, the latter depends on the structure of the neurons in
the brain. Hebb’s specific thesis was that persistent electrical activity associated
with the receipt of new information eventually alters the connections between
brain cells and thereby consolidates the information into long-term memory.”

It is important to note that additional information received afier the learning has
occurred, and during the subsequent growth phase, is no longer treated as a shock
by the system. It is, instead, seen as confirming the validity of the context within
which it is placed. This phenomenon will be dealt with in more detail in the next
chapter, in the context of the behaviour of financial markets. In the meantime,
we can note that the main thrust of a bull or bear movement in a financial market
will take place when the market is newtral in relation to its environment.

THE SECOND ENERGY GAP

However, the logic of the enneagram reveals that there is a natural limit to the
process of environment-neutral growth. In terms of the three-phase learning
process, satiation and tiredness eventually set in, and a period of rest and
recuperation is required. See Figure 8-5 again. However, there is an alternative.
The environment may deliver an unexpected shock to a system." This requires
more than just a minor adjustment in the latter. There is, therefore, an important
distinction to be drawn between change asa learnt response to fluctuations in the
environment and evolution as a revolutionary jump into a different state of being.

This distinction is reflected in the fact that there is a second energy gap, which
coincides precisely with the missing semi-tone between Ti and Do", See Figure
8-9 below. This means that, in the absence of a new revolutionary impulse
between Ti and Do", the power within the organism is insufficient to start a
new circuit at a higher level on the spiral: it is insufficient to push it from point
8, past point 9, and on to point 1. The energy flow therefore reverses after point
8. It drops to point 5.

"Donald Hebb, The Organisation of Behaviour (John Wiley, New York, 1949). Interestingly, the process of
adjustment involves a temporary ‘forgetting’ of the initiating information.

“In the initial stages of a bull market, for example, the new information is placed in the context of bear sentiment;
but in the later stages, bullish information is placed in the context of bullish sentiment.

"This raises the very relevant question about higher purposes. A shock, transmitted from outside the system, will
simultaneously destroy the old structures and raise the system to a higher level of being. Hence that which appears
dad from the lower point of view, is actually good from a higher point of view.

76

--- PAGE 93 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

Secondenergy gap 9/0
Ss (Do)

(Ti) (Re)

(La) (Me)

5 4
(So) (Fa)

FIGURE 8-9: THE SECOND ENERGY GAP

This failure to bridge the gap between point 8 and point 9 of the enneagram
(i.e. between Ti and Do"), highlights an important feature of the Law of Seven
that is often missed. This is that there is a critical difference between the second
energy gap and its predecessor, making it more difficult to offset. Whereas the
first gap was easily bridged by the influence of the active force of the initial
stimulus, the second gap is protected from being bridged by the influence of the
passive force of the initial stimulus. The second gap is thus a great barrier. In
terms of our analogy with the musical scale, the system cannot jump from Ti to
Do!" unless a quality of energy that is higher than that of the initial stimulus is
received. Otherwise, the movement still remains under the control of the i
creative shock and starts to travel in the opposite direction.

This point can be better explained by looking again at the tonic sol-fa in the
context of the enneagram. The initial shock or creative impulse, Do, occurs at
the apex of the enneagram’s triangle. The system traverses Re, Me and Fa by
moving through points 1, 4 and 2. As already mentioned, the active force (which
is a function of the initial impulse) delivers the necessary energy to the system
at point 3, encouraging the system to rise to point 8. However, note what
happens to the follow-through from this point 3 energy shock. /t now assumes
the status of being an initiating stimulus (Do*) (see Chapter 6). Point 6
accordingly becomes the active force in the context of this stimulus (bridging
the gap at Me*-Fa*). This is shown in Figure 8-10.

--- PAGE 94 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Do

Re (1)

Fa*la Me (2)
(7)
Passive force Do*

becomes active

So (5) Fa (4)
Me*, Re*

FIGURE 8-10; THE PASSIVE FORCE REVERSAL

The next step in the logic of this process is shown in Figure 8-11. The now
activated passive force generates a new octave starting at Do**. The result is that
the retardation, or energy gap, between Me** and Fa** in this octave coincides
with the original second energy gap between Ti and Do". Unless a new energy
source is received at this point from outside the system, the energy flow will
have met a barrier z
along the growth spiral is thereby terminated.

nd will drop from point 8 to point 5. The movement up

ENERGY FLOWS, BARRIERS AND SHOCKS

The enneagram reflects the processes within a self-contained energy system. No
new energy is received by it, but the energy itself assumes different roles as it
transits through each complete oscillation. Consequently, an original creative
impulse, or shock, sets up a repetitive oscillation. The system will continue
around the circle of the enneagram unless, or until, a new shock from outside
the system can bridge the second energy gap between Ti and the higher Do".
This would represent evolution through revolution and would take the system
to a higher point on the open ended spiral. Otherwise, the system remains in a
cycle of recurrence.

There is one last point that needs to be made about the enneagram before we
move on. This is that, as presented so far in this chapter, the six-wave energy

78

--- PAGE 95 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

pulse is shown separately from the triangle of forces. That is, the 1-4-2-8-5-7(-

1) pulse is separate from the 0-3-6(-9) triangle. This helps to explain some of
the theoretical processes that are involved, but it is an oversimplification.

Original Fa**

second
energy gap
Me** Do"/Do
Ti (8) Re (1)
Re** Fa* La Me (2)
(7)
Do*
Do**
N So (5) Fa (4)
Me*. Re*

FIGURE 8-11: THIRD OCTAVE ENERGY GAP

If, instead, the notes of the tonic sol-fa are placed diatonically around the circle
of the enneagram, the notes Fa, La and Do"! coincide with the corners of the
equilateral triangle. This is shown in Figure 8-12, where the notes are placed on
the circumference of the enneagram according to the ratios shown in Table 6-3
of Chapter 6. The result is that Fa coincides with the corner of the triangle that
defines the active force and La coincides with the corner that defines the passive
force. This means that, in the absence of an (internally-generated) shock at Me,
or an (externally imposed) shock at So, the energy forces at Fa and La will act
as barriers. This keeps the energy trapped in the circuit and the system cannot
ascend to the peak of the triangle.

The conclusions from Figure 8-12 are that: first, a clear distinction needs to be
drawn between the active, passive and neutral forces that drive a system, and
the energetic shocks that are necessary to take a system over an energy gap; and,
second, a system is receptive to transformational shocks only at very specific
moments in its evolution.

79

--- PAGE 96 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

9/0
Second Do"/Do
energy gap
Ti Re
Me
First energy
gap
6 3
La Fa
So

FIGURE 8-12: THE DIATONIC ENNEAGRAM

CONCLUSION

Mr. Gurdjieff thus used a very clear teaching tool, based on the Law of Seven
and the Law of Three, to demonstrate the forces involved in creating recurring
cyclical behaviour. This is something so much more than either just a
recognition of non-linearity or only a belief that external shocks create
vibrations. The message is that the vibrations are ordered, non-random,
processes, and that they are an essential part, not just of biological systems, but
of life generally. This implies that — no matter how difficult it is to understand
— the Law of Three and the Law of Seven apply to collective human behaviour.

80

--- PAGE 97 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 9

THE ENNEAGRAM AND
FINANCIAL MARKETS

“Remember, everything in this universe is elliptical or circular in motion; that
applies both to the abstract and the concrete.”

W.D. Gann

“This law explains why there are no straight lines in nature.”

P.D. Ouspensky

SELF-ORGANISING SYSTEMS

Before proceeding further, it may be useful to takea detour away from esoteric
literature into the arena of scientific research and practical application. The
ultimate purpose of this book is to establish whether the possible existence of
hitherto unrecognised natural laws can actually be applied to human behaviour
— particularly collective human behaviour. We therefore need to establish a
bridge between abstruse ideas that, as yet, have no grounding in fact and areas
of human behaviour that cari be measured in same way: For example, can the
oscillations that are intrinsic to the enneagram be found in financial market
speculation or in economic activity?

At this stage, therefore, it may be useful to introduce some ideas from modern
systems and behavioural theory and then consider the characteristics of oscillations
in financial markets. This should ultimately provide the basis for ditect comparison

--- PAGE 98 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

of theoretical vibrations ~ as derived from St. Matthew's Gospel, Beelzebub’ Tales,
and Tunnel — with the reality of price movements in markets.

Modern researchers are very familiar with the idea that the universe is a hierarchy
of competence and power, which utilises a dynamic two-way relationship
between the higher and lower levels. Within this view, every level of the universe
exerts a controlling influence over its subordinate parts, including the damping
down of anarchic fluctuations; yet every part contributes to the nature of the
level above it, including the evolution of the higher level through un-damped
(or increasing) oscillations generated from below.

The direct inference is that each level of the hierarchy is something very much
greater than the sum of its parts: quality is, in some way, derived from quantity.
This quality is reflected in the sel/f-organising ability of each element in the
hierarchical structure, and in the responsiveness and adaptability of these elements
to changes in their environment. The central characteristic’ of a self-organising
system is its ability to use negative feedback loops to transmit information:
throughout the hierarchy — both horizontally (on the same level) and vertically
(between levels).

GREATER WHOLES

The problem is that the cause of this self-organising ability is, as yet, not generally
recognised. Its existence is evidenced by the presence of order; and the evidence
is more convincing the less likely it is that order exists in the first place. But
quantitative science cannot yet bring itself to suggest that some form of
unknown (super-natural, or sub-quantifiable) power is involved. Consequently,
scientific debate recognises the resu/t of the energies involved, without necessarily
dealing with the source of those energies. The cause of self-organisation remains,
for most, a mysterious fact of life.

Nevertheless, it is at least a useful working hypothesis to postulate that the source
of self-organisation may be some form of pervasive energy with which we are
not yet familiar. Ancient traditions — which were very well aware of the
equilibrating forces in the universe — allocated to this energy the attribute of
consciousness, albeit not in the way that it arises in the human brain. If correct,

"Batson, Mind and Narure. in this seminal book, Bateson observed five character
or of mental processes. These are:
1, Self-organising systems are aggregates of interacting parts;
2. The interaction is triggered by difference;
3. Self-organising systems require an input of ene
4, They use negative feedback loops; and
5. Each stage in any feedback loop transforms information,
Thid. Information is defined as “change which makes a change”.

is of sel organising systems,

82

--- PAGE 99 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

it follows that the more closely that human perception is aligned to greater
wholes, the more closely can it approach this mysterious energy, or force.’ This
alignment — or widening — of perception may be viewed in either, or both, of
two ways: first, it may be obtained by expanding consciousness to embrace ever-
greater units of self-organisation; second, it may simply be recognised by
accepting the implications of the dynamic stability of revealed life processes.

Whether or not the source of self-organisation can be experienced directly is
not strictly relevant here. However, the effects of its power — in terms,
particularly, of control of its lower levels — are continuously available for
observation and repeated verification. The fact is that, from the perspective of
higher levels of the hierarchy, the lower levels are highly organised and are
responsive to apparently simple laws. For example, in a sample of blood, a white
blood cell may appear to be a separate entity and its movements may appear to
be random; but in its natural environment, the same cell would be completely
responsive to the body’s survival needs. The simple law is: if the body is invaded
by a threatening organism, the white blood cell — as the body's agent — will
attempt to destroy it.

The really important point in the current context — and the idea that represents
the greatest challenge to economic theorists — is that human beings themselves
are also subject to controlling forces from higher-level groupings. That is, we
each have a self-assertive tendency (a drive towards individuality) but we also all
have an integrative tendency (a drive to take part in greater wholes).:

On the one hand, therefore, we each perceive ourselves as being independent,
unique and therefore important. But, on the other hand, we are continually
being influenced by social pressures that treat us as being dependent,
undifferentiated and therefore dispensable. As a result, we are continually being
presented with a choice (whether actual or metaphorical) between creative
isolation and unconscious immolation. We are, each of us, caught between
opposite polarities that can either stimulate us to the greatest achievements in
art and science or sweep us to revolution and war.

COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOUR

The central fact that emerges from modern neuro-scientific research is that there
is an observable form of order in collective behaviour that co-exists with — or
overrides — the otherwise non-predictable behaviour of individuals.: We are social

‘Wilber, Atman Project
chur Koestler, Janus: A Summing Up (Hutchinson, London, 1978).
The evidence can be regarded as more convincing the less likely itis that order exists in the frst place.

83

--- PAGE 100 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

beings; this is a function not just of rational choice, but also of evolutionary
necessity. Most of us need contact with others both to validate the mental
construct of the ego and to enhance our chances of personal survival. In the
business and investment world, the latter is essential.

We are literally programmed to rely on others to provide us with information
that we cannot get directly for ourselves.’ We are, therefore, programmed to be
open and vulnerable to the reactions of others so that any new information can
quickly be absorbed through the emotional brain. Necessarily and constantly —
and unconsciously as well as consciously — we scan the behavioural patterns of
others to see what, if anything, is changing.

This implies that the personal ego — the sense of self — has a weakness in its
structure: it has to remain permeable to collective needs in order to deal with
an actual or perceived threat. Under normal circumstances, there is always some
degree of group influence, but under conditions of immediate threat or of
prolonged stress, the ego boundaries can collapse completely, and allow the
psyche to be overrun by simple group objectives and beliefs. This latter is the
primary process associated with major social, economic and/or political change.
It creates single-minded tribal groups whose fanatical members have the power
to destroy actual and imagined enemies. The psychological and physical havoc
wreaked by such groups — which on a smaller scale are crowds — helps to break
down the old social orders and provides the raw material for the new ones to
emerge: It is a process that oscillates between the polarities of fission and fusion.

Measuring collective behaviour

This is all well and good, but the next question is, how can group behaviour
actually be quantified? Noise levels and numbers involved might be one way
forward. However, the problem becomes even more insoluble when the group
is not actually physical, but is instead widely dispersed. How, for example, can
the integrative force of patriotism be measured?

The starting point is to recognise that coherent collective groups (hereafter, for
simplicity, crowds) are psychological phenomena, not physical ones. Membership
of a crowd is determined, not by a physical presence, but by a willingness to
accept the crowd's belief system uncritically and by a willingness to identify with
other crowd members. In this way alternative points of view are filtered out and

"See, for example, Albert Bandura, Social Learning Theory (General Learning Press, New York, 197)
Neumann, Depth Pychology. The only defence against this problem is active self-awareness, which broadens and

strengthens the ego boundaries. It is my belief that Mr. Gann’s success was partly related to his pursuit of self-

awareness. See Gann, The Magic Word.

* Social groupings are an essential part of the human condition, because they facilitate co-operation. However, itis

also arguable that crowed behaviour (in all its forms) is basically a reflection of humankind’s inherent inability to

evolve to high:

levels of consciousness.

--- PAGE 101 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

the rational thought processes of participants are effectively suppressed. There
is a diminution of awareness and responsibility and personal freedom is
sacrificed to the purposes of the crowd.» In such a condition, crowd members
are very responsive to instructions from the crowd leadership, which acts as the
catalyst for crowd activity.

In this context, one of the very best areas to research is financial markets. Not
only do such markets develop a distinct crowd mentality, but the behaviour of
the crowd can be researched — and then tracked in real time — by movements in
explicit and readily available activity indicators such as asset prices, and by
movements in certain energy indicators such as trading volumes.

A financial crowd’s belief system relates to views about the future direction of
price movements: the bullish crowd thinks that prices will rise; the bearish crowd
thinks that prices will fall. Having adopted a particular belief system, all that
each crowd member will then tend to concentrate on (at first sub-consciously
and then increasingly consciously) is the actual movement in prices. This is,
quite simply, because it is the movement in prices that determines the success or
otherwise of a trading position — not the quality of the so-called rational analysis
that preceded it. Accordingly, rising prices encourage bulls and falling prices
encourage bears." In this way, moving prices fulfil the /eadership function in a
financial market crowd: the crowd chases the prevailing trend because that is
what they are effectively being told to do by a linear projection of the most
recent move in prices."

Constraints on rational decision-making

Hence, crowd psychology ensures that the ability of investors to arrive at
independent decisions waxes and wanes over the course of a bull/bear life cycle.
At major turning points in markets, the crowd-mind is at its most effective. The
majority of investors will still be prepared to buy as a market approaches its
peak; while the majority of investors will still want to sell as a market nears its
trough. At these turning points, the integrative force operating within the crowd
will be strong and will ensure that individuals are experiencing minimal fear
towards the prevailing trend. In effect, the crowd has become complacent.

Conversely of course, as a new price trend emerges, the new crowd is in its
infancy. Hence its grip on individuals is very weak and profitable positions will

*Gustave le Bon, Piychologie des Fowles. Reprinted as The Crowd (Macmillan, New York, 1922).

"As a result, itis possible for people to commit all sorts of crimes that, as individuals, they would not even
contemplate.

"This, of course, directly contradicts traditional economic theory, which only allows for changes in net demand co
influence prices, not for prices to influence net demand, However, the two-way feedback mechanism, which
actually occurs in the price-demand relationship, is a natural characteristic of life.

" Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets

85

--- PAGE 102 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

tend to be closed off very quickly. Not surprisingly, therefore, there is often a
prolonged period of price volatility before a new trend is clearly seen to emerge.
The integrative tendency of the new crowd will be weak and the fear about the
re-emergence of the old trend will be high.

FINANCIAL MARKET DYNAMICS

In Forecasting Financial Markets, | argued that, because moving prices generate
a crowd-type environment, every financial market has natural metabolic price
oscillations with three observable characteristics:

1. They have regular periodicities;
2. They each have a basic pattern; and

3. They each contain segmented price movements that are mathematically
related to each other. I called this matrix of phenomena the price pulse.

The basic concepts involved may be demonstrated by the use of a very simple
model that combines the influence of rhythmic oscillations with the operation of
a spiral. In Figure 9-1, the change in financial asset prices is related to a notional
index of investor sentiment (such as, for example, the ratio of bulls to bears).

Plus

Investor
sentiment

Prices falling

Minus

FIGURE 9-1: THE PRICE-SENTIMENT LIMIT CYCLE

"bid,
“Ibid.

86

--- PAGE 103 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

Above the horizontal line, prices are rising in absolute terms; below the line,
they are falling. The two-way relationship between prices and sentiment is
expressed by a construct known as a limit cycle.» Such a cycle describes the co-
evolution through time of two inter-dependent variables. As shown, this cycle
is biased to the right. Hence, during the main part of a trend, price changes and
sentiment will move together, with no clear-cut direction of causation; moving
prices stimulate investor activity and investor activity stimulates price
movements, At turning points, however, the relationship: bréaks down.
Changing prices cannot stimulate further investor involvement because the
market has become overbought or oversold. Technical analysts will note the
divergence and call it a non-confirmation.

Information shocks and re-tests

However — and this is crucial — behaviour does not stay on the limit cycle. As
profit-taking develops (whether by closing longs or shorts), prices change
direction and a shock — specifically, an information shock — is delivered to the
limit cycle system. See Figure 9-2. This is the sort of behaviour that is easily
recognisable during a financial market crash, but is less noticeable under normal
circumstances. Nevertheless, it is ubiquitous: it occurs at all levels of the market's
hierarchy of cycles.

Plus

Investor
sentiment

Minus

FIGURE 9-2: THE SHOCK-INDUCED SPIRAL

TA limit cycle Ws defined as the periodic oscillation between two variables and is represented by a dosed non-linear
path, See, for example, D.W. Jordan and P. Smith, Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations (Oxford University
Press, Oxford, UK, 1977)

87

--- PAGE 104 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Next, the shock sets up a series of potentially destabilising oscillations, caused
by negative feedback. These oscillations translate into a spiral that continues
until the self-organising limit cycle processes re-assert themselves. See Figure 9-
2 again. This spiral movement actually involves a re-test of the price levels from
which the shock occurred. It may therefore occur either in a falling market (as
shown in Figure 9-2) or it may occur in a rising market (not shown).

Such re-tests may, in fact, involve a new high in a bull market, or a new low in
a bear market, depending on the strength of the limit cycles operating at the
next higher level in the hierarchy. Whether it does or not, however, it is not
normally accompanied by a strong improvement in the indicators of investor
sentiment. This is also a non-confirmation, but it is much the more powerful of
the two types of divergence because the subsequent move will be a dynamic
thrust in the direction indicated by the limit cycle.

Three-phase movements

What emerges from this brief consideration of market dynamics is that price
movements — in terms of both momentum and level — are likely to evolve in
three-wave patterns. A bull move will start with bears closing positions in an
oversold market. This is the information shock that the market will have to
absorb. Prices advance further as rising momentum encourages additional bear
closing. Nevertheless, a point will come where the short-term traders will judge
that the market has travelled far enough. Prices start to pull back, and there will
be a surge in short-term selling as traders attempt to take their profits.
Consequently, a ‘retest’ of the low occurs.

It is during this retest that market participants will start to consider the
possibility that a reversal might actually be occurring. In other words, the retest
of the low corresponds to the absorption stage of the learning process. There
need not be an active restructuring of trading and investment positions, and
prices may even move out to new highs. The important development is that the
certainty of the bear trend has been undermined and that some degree of doubt
will have crept in. Consequently, market participants will be just that much
more willing to reverse their bear positions and open bull positions when prices
start to recover again. The learning has been done; all that is required is for the
market to lead the way.

This process will, of course, be reversed in a bear trend, or in a correction within
a bull trend. That is to say falling markets, too, will exhibit a basic three-wave
profile. Hence, financial markets can be seen as an oscillating process that moves
between extremes of overbought and oversold. Each swing is an outward
expression of an inner process that moves through the sequence of: information
shock, information absorption and information application. The result is the
cycle pattern shown in Figure 9-3. This is the price pulse.

88

--- PAGE 105 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

Price

Time
FIGURE 9-3: THE PRICE PULSE

The extraordinary fact is that the price pulse — which represents the shape of a cycle
ina particular aspect of collective human behaviour — exactly matches the pattern
of oscillation that evolves from Mr. Gurdjieff’s enneagram. See Chapter 8.

This conclusion has consequences that are potentially profound. Mr. Gurdjieff
maintained the enneagram was “the fundamental hieroglyph of a universal
language” and “a schematic diagram of perpetual motion”. He argued that it
contained “the eternal laws of the universe” and that if a person truly
understands something, then he or she should be able to put it into the
enneagram. Hence, if the pattern of the price pulse — or enneagram — holds true
within the context of financial markets, it is likely that it also holds true for
economic activity, cultural evolution, and even the rise and fall of civilisations.
The basic points are:

1. The pattern is universal, so it can apply to all sorts of processes ranging
from psychological dynamics to biological systems; and

2. The cycle pattern is fractal, such that it reproduces itself at all levels of
the hierarchy and over multiple time frames.”

We shall be looking at the presence of this pattern in collective human behaviour
in later chapters. At this point, however, it will be useful to register that the

"See Benoit Mandelbrot, The Fractal Geomerry of Nature (Freeman, New York, 1977),

© This fact is not intuitively obvious. However, observers such as Ralph Nelson Elliott have been able to catalogue
a strictly limited number of price patterns in financial markets, Ralph Nelson Elliott, The Wave Principle (Elliott,
New York, 1938). Reprinted in Robert R, Prechter (Ed.), The Major Works of RIN. Elliott (New Classics Library,
New York, 1980).

89

--- PAGE 106 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

pattern does indeed exist in financial markets. Figure 9-4 shows the profile of
the 3.5-year cycle in the Dow Jones Industrial Average." The cycle is tracked in
terms of six-month percentage rates of change in closing prices. Each beat of
the cycle inevitably varies in terms of time elapse from the average, so the shorter
cycles have been mathematically stretched to match the time elapse of the
longest cycle in the matrix. Then, 18 beats of the cycle — starting in November
1946 and ending in February 2009 — have been averaged together and compared
with an ideal cycle.

The ideal cycle deduced from the enneagram/price pulse is as shown by the
dashed line in Figure 9-4. The upswing (denoted 1-2-3) peaks about 50% of
the way along the length of the cycle, the downswing (A-B-C) ends with a deep
low, and the intra-cycle lows at the end of waves 2 and A impact at around 33%
and 66% of the way into the cycle. In reality, each beat of the cycle will have its
own unique characteristics, but it is quite clear that the average of all 18 beats
produces a pattern that is consistent with the ideal.

3.5-Year Cycle in the DJ Industrial Average
(Engmonty) ai
ara source Eeoromagie

‘Emonth % change

48 Rb HATA HAT IS BAT NH WB 6 0 Hw
Percentofeyde time elapsed

FIGURE 9-4: THE PRICE PULSE IN THE DJIA

However, the real power of what is being presented can be seen when the
evolving 19th beat of the cycle is overlaid on the chart (see Figure 9-5). This
beat started in February 2009. At the time of writing, the cycle is some way
from finishing. However, there can be no question that the broad swings of the
cycle are a sufficiently close match to the average and the ideal to know that the
enneagram/price pulse can be used for anticipating the future.

* The cle is often identified as a 40-month cyde, See, for example, Louise L. Wilson, Catalogue of Gyles
(Foundation for the Study of Cycles, Pittsburgh (Pa.), 1964).

90

--- PAGE 107 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS

CHAPTER 9
Conrenteycle
Febo3 hm 0807 Feb10.— m1. «OctO.— Fabel. tnst Ore Feb? tant? cet?
Year in thi 1 A\
(Endnonih) } a0
‘ont source’ Eeoromagic
0 le
staata | 20
: ont
July 2012

Emonth% change
Gmonths change

2 moe Artewystpanern
é Herat cen crestor 4610 FebOR nscale: tomertme aes)

Percent of cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 9-5: THE 2009 TO 2012 CYCLE

CONCLUSION

The purpose of this chapter has been to establish a link (via modern systems
theory and the concept of collective psychology) between supposed natural laws
and mass human behaviour. If the evidence contained in Figures 9-4 and 9-5 is
correct, then such a link does indeed exist.

The Law of Three suggests that natural systems will always be either expanding
or contracting, and the Law of Seven — i.e. the law of vibration — suggests that
each swing will be characterised by a three-wave behaviour pattern. However,
for these two laws to operate together — in a coherent way that can be recognised
and anticipated — something profound needs to be acknowledged. This is that
there has to be some form of holding force that generates the processes of
expansion and contraction, and controls the patterns of the resulting oscillations.
So far, this force is not recognised by science, but it is becoming increasingly
difficult to argue that, because it exists beyond the boundaries of scientific
observation, and cannot therefore be quantified, it does not exist.

There is much more research that needs to be to be done but, if the conclusions
of this chapter are correct, we have the basis for an additional dimension to
understanding about collective human behaviour.

1

--- PAGE 108 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 109 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 10

WILLIAM D. GANN AND
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

“The great law of vibration is based on like producing like.”
W.D. Gann

“The enneagram is perpetual motion... [which] is part of another perpetual
motion and cannot be created apart from it.”

P.D. Ouspensky

HIDDEN PATTERNS

The claim that George Gurdjieff’s enneagram describes an archetypal pattern
of vibration is startling and intriguing. On the one hand, the enneagram is said
to be based on fundamental principles that are without antecedent. This implies
that we may have to accept that there are influences beyond the level of the
individual human being that we cannot yet access through the power of
discursive thought. Certainly, the Law of Three and the Law of Seven are not yet
overtly recognised by science. On the other hand, if enneagram-type patterns
can be found in nature, then Mr. Gurdjieff’s claims need seriously to be
considered. In the previous chapter, it was shown that these patterns can, in
fact, be found in financial market price movements.

I have argued elsewhere that financial market and economic activities
demonstrate the existence of a rhythmic recurring pattern. The argument was

"Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets

--- PAGE 110 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

that the basic three-up/three-down pattern that could be derived from financial
market indices and from economic data was created by collective learning in
response to changes in the environment. Furthermore, there seemed to be little
doubt that the phenomenon was more consistent with non-rational group
behaviour than with the aggregated decisions of rational individuals acting
independently of one another.

The name that I originally gave to the archetypal pattern within the context of
financial markets was the price pulse. This gave recognition to the idea that
financial market prices did not move just in patterns but also oscillated
rhythmically. As shown in the previous chapter, the price pulse is to all intents
and purposes identical to Mr. Gurdjieff’s enneagram vibration.

Italso turns out, however, that the most important version of the three-up/three-
down pattern may be one that has a pronounced bias in it. There are two reasons
for believing this to be the case. Firstly, Mr. Gurdjieff hid such a pattern within
the architecture of his book, Beelzebub’ Tales, having told his pupils that his extant
teaching enneagram was “incomplete”. Secondly, exactly the same biased pattern
is contained in the mathematics of “sign of the prophet Jonas” in St Matthew's
Gospel, and in the structure of William Gann's book, The Tunnel Thru The Air.

The fact that all three books contain a concealed reference to exactly the same —
very specific — pattern is probably of monumental importance. What is not clear
is the reason why the pattern has remained hidden for so long. One explanation
is that a researcher would need to have some sense of the object of the search. But
it is also true that it is first necessary to find the key that opens the lock.

THE PATTERN HIDDEN IN TUNNEL THRU THE
AIR

Given the importance of Mr. Gann's work in directly referencing St. Matthew and
indirectly referencing Mr. Gurdjieff, it seems appropriate to start with his
presentation of the pattern in The Tunnel Thru The Air. The clue about how to
find it came from an unexpected source — namely, a research thesis by Sophia
Wellbeloved: that dealt with (among other things) the way that Mr. Gurdjieff had
been able to include the influences of the various planets in Beelzebubs Tales, but
without making explicit reference to astrology.« Ms. Wellbeloved’s argument —
which was certainly consistent with her detailed analysis — was that those influences

*George Gurdjieff, quoted in Ouspensky, In Search
'Gann, Tunnel.

‘Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff: Astrology & Beelzebub’ Tales.
‘Gurdjieff, Beelzebubs Tales

94

--- PAGE 111 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

were implicit in the structure of that book. The question that immediately arose
was: could Ms. Wellbeloved’s idea be applied to Mr. Gann’s book?

The first edition of Tisnnel consists of 418 pages and spans 36 chapters.“ As a piece
of literature, it is tediously long and seemingly meaningless. It is full of irrelevant
poems and apparently inappropriate quotations — especially from the Bible. This,
however, turns out to be a clue, because the ad
to control the number of pages in any given chapter. The details of the pages per
chapter in Tinel are shown in Appendix 4. It is apparent that the number of
pages per chapter varies significantly, from a low of four to a high of 30.

ional text is used as an artifice

Figure 10-1 plots the number of pages in each chapter against the chapter
number itself. For ease of exposition, the chart includes some additional
information. First, the top horizontal axis is used to measure the percentage of
the whole book covered by each chapter. Second, a 45-degree line is drawn from
the lower left-hand corner to the point on the upper horizontal axis that is
equivalent to 100% of chapters. Third, a simple notation is added so that the
rising part of the diagram is marked 1-2-3, the subsequent (falling) section is
marked A-B-C, and the fluctuations within the interim (rising) wave B are
marked a-b-c.

Percent of35 chapters
0 6 2 uM ws 7 3 8 7% A MB 100
35 ~ “35
34 cry
3 3
3 3 2
rT a

30
2
2
2
26
2s
24
23
2
2
20
19
18
7
16
8
“
2B
2
n
10

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

2 A c

10305 7 9 43 15 47 a9 2 23 28 27 29 91 33 35
Chapternumber

FIGURE 10-1: GANN’S HIDDEN PATTERN OF VIBRATION

The information held in the physical structure of the book is inevitably Tost in reproductions that take no account
of che original typesetting, In recent years, insensitive alterations have effectively halted the transmission of some of
Mr. Gannis more profound ideas.

95

--- PAGE 112 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The result is truly stunning: it is a /e-biased enneagram-type pulse, placed
within a square. There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak. This is
followed by a sharp contraction (A), which would be an energy gap in terms of
an enneagram pattern. There is then a long advance (B) that divides into three
sub-waves (a-b-c). And, finally, there is a sharp fall (C) as the whole process
comes to completion. Within the overall pattern, it is noticeable that the
majority of waves themselves consist of three sub-waves.

The peak number of pages occurs in Chapter 12, which is exactly one-third of
the way through Tisnnel. So wave 3 peaks 33% of the way through the evolution
of the whole pattern. Meanwhile, the end of the wave A downswing is
emphasised. It is the lowest low on the chart, and it coincides with the halfway
point (i.e. the 18th chapter) of the book.

As presented, the 45-degree line in Figure 10-1 bisects a 35 x 35 square. The
line runs from the lower left-hand corner to the upper right-hand corner of the
square, and intersects the point where the number of chapters in the book equals
the natural extension of the scale that measures the number of pages in a chapter.
Hence, 35 chapters equal 35 pages per chapter where the 1-2-3/A-B-C vibration
reaches completion. The process is complete when the end of the cyclical pattern
coincides with a geometric boundary.

The emphasis on the square, plus the fact that the lowest low occurs exactly
halfway through the cycle, appears to split the cycle into two distinct parts.
Indeed, the second half essentially recapitulates the oscillations of the first half,
although the amplitudes of the fluctuations are significantly reduced. Hence,
the 1-2 base of the first half is repeated in the a-b base of the second half; the
dynamic wave 3 is mirrored in the slower wave c; and the A wave fall is echoed
in theend-ofcycle-waveC

At first sight, the use of a dyadic structure seems to discount the Law of Three.
However, a closer analysis reveals the presence of a threefold arrangement. It
also reveals the presence of the Golden Ratio, which — as we saw in Chapter 3
~ implicitly references the Law of Three. The details are shown in Figures 10-2
and 10-3. Firstly, the pattern contains three important swings (i.e. advances plus
contractions) within the main cycle. Waves 1 and 2 are identified as the first
beat; waves 3 and A are labelled the second beat; and waves B and C are denoted
the third beat.

An initiating shock and the Golden Ratio

As presented, there is some evidence that the first beat of the pattern (i.e. waves
1 and 2) has a specific role to play in the evolution of the whole pattern. Firstly,
it covers eight chapters (i.e. chapters 1 through 8 inclusive). The number 8 is

96

--- PAGE 113 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

almost certainly significant in this context because it references the metaphor
of a completed octave. This, in turn, transmits the message that the interval
between the seventh and eighth notes (i.e. Ti-Do) has been transcended and
that another, higher, octave has been initiated. Hence, the first beat of the cycle
can be seen as an information shock that then generates the other two cycle
beats in the pattern. This reflects the idea — introduced in Chapter 9 — that
living systems adjust to new information.

The second important piece of evidence that the first beat of the pattern is an
information shock of some sort is that the subsequent two beats of the pattern
are related to one another by the Golden Ratio, 0.382:0.618. Figure 10-2 uses
the number 1 as the origin of both the lower horizontal axis and the vertical
axis. If, however, the horizontal axis starts at zero, the presence of the Golden
Ratio becomes clear (see upper axis). The second beat of the pattern (i.e. rising
wave 3 and falling wave A) covers 10 chapters and the third beat (i.e. rising wave
B and falling wave C) covers 17 chapters.

This means that the second beat is 37% of the length of the second and third
beats taken together — i.e. (10/27) x 100. It also means that the third beat is
63% of that part of the pattern — i.e. (17/27) x 100. This division is as near to
the Golden Ratio as can be achieved using whole numbers. On the basis of the
arguments explored in Chapter 3, this suggests that the second beat of the
pattern has an active energy, and the third beat has a passive energy. This is
certainly consistent with the differences in the amplitudes of the vibrations.

Axis rebased to zero
0 2 4 6 & 10 12 4 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 98

” FH
A 382 0.618 s
2 2
u 3 x

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

Third beat
Chapter number

FIGURE 10-2: THE LAW OF THREE WITHIN AN APPARENTLY DYADIC STRUCTURE

97

--- PAGE 114 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

This does not complete the evidence that the overall pattern references the
Golden Ratio. Figure 10-3 shows that the length of pattern from the start of
the first beat to the end of wave b within the third beat is 21 units (see upper
horizontal axis), while waves c and C taken together cover 13 units.’ This means
that the horizontal distance from the start of the pattern to the low of wave b is
61.8% of the whole pattern — i.e. (21/34) x 100 — and that the horizontal
distance from the low of wave b to the end of the pattern is 38.2% of the whole
pattern — i.e. (13/34) x 100. Furthermore, the horizontal distance travelled by
wave c is 61.8% of the length from the low of wave b to the end of the pattern
— i.e. (8/13) x 100 —and the distance travelled by wave C is 38.2% of the length
from the low of wave b to the end of the pattern — i.e. (5/13) x 100.

Axisrebasedto ero
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 18 16 18 20 22 28 26 28 30 32 34

= 0.618 382 ¥

2 2
31 3 0.618 J 0.382 || 31
30 30

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

A b
First beat Second beat t Third beat
135 7 9 May 48 47 a9 at 23 25 27 29 31 a a

Chapter number

FIGURE 10-3: THE GOLDEN RATIO

Ie is clear that behind the dyadic structure of Mr. Gann's pattern lays a wealth
of detail that emphasises the influence of the Law of Three: the pattern contains
three inner cycles; the second and third cycles are related to one another by the
Golden Ratio; and the whole pattern can be separated into two unequal parts
that reflect the harmony of the Golden Ratio. This latter is particularly
important because it separates the volatile part of the pattern (i.e. 0-b) from the

These numbers come from the Fibonacci Series, 0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34,... etc. In this particular series each
number is the sum of the two preceding numbers, and the ratio of each number to the subsequent number tends
to the ratio 0.618:1. The Fibonacci Series therefore reflects the Golden Ratio.

98

--- PAGE 115 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

subsequent advance (i.e. b-c). This advance is the longest individual section of
the pattern. In some sense, therefore, the initial volatility establishes the base
from which a sustainable advance emerges.

The emergence of additional information once attention is paid to the detail of
Mr. Gann’s pattern is very important. The pattern is complex and — as will
become apparent — far-reaching. It is in direct contrast to the flaccid text and
weak story line within Tunnel. What becomes apparent is that Mr. Gann’s
pattern is a type of carrier wave: it contains within it a profusion of important
information, not just about the nature of vibration, but also about the
evolutionary patterns that are involved. These features of Mr. Gann's pattern
will be explored in more detail in Chapters 13, 14, and 15.

THE GANN PATTERN IN FINANCIAL MARKETS

The question at this stage, however, is: can the basic pattern that was concealed
in Tunnel actually be found in financial markets (which were, after all,
supposedly Mr. Gann’s area of expertise)? The answer is in the affirmative,
although it is not always obvious. One of the most dramatic examples of Mr.
Gann’s pattern occurred in the US Treasury bond market between 1981 and
1994, when inflationary expectations were being brought under control after
the appalling experience of the 1970s.

Bal US 10-Year Treasury Bond Price Index “
| (700-constantmaturiy yield weekly)
we Data sue: Fada Rovere Boa *

Sond incex

FIGURE 10-4: US TREASURY BONDS, 1981-1996

99

--- PAGE 116 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Treasury bond price behaviour over this period is represented by Figure 10-4,
which shows the movement in an index calculated by deducting the official
constant maturity yield on US 10-year Treasury bonds from 100. The period
started with a price explosion in the second half of 1982 and ended with a bond
crash in 1994; in between, prices were very volatile. The whole 12-year cycle
incorporated the shocks that were necessary to bring inflationary expectations
back under control, and those traders and investors who lived through the cycle
will readily attest to its brutality.

The price oscillations associated with the transformation of inflation expectations
should provide an ideal set of data for testing the veracity of Mr. Gann pattern.
In particular, we should be able to see where the pattern matches actual experience
and where there are differences. The raw price data in Figure 10-4 shows a distinct
upward bias to US Treasury bond prices between 1981 and 1993. We can partially
remove this bias by creating a 12-year (i.e. a 624-week) moving average of the
data and then tracking the divergence of each of the data points from a centred
version of that average. The results are shown in Figure 10-5.

Mp1 Apes Mar42 FebS4 IanS DecAS NovbE OC47 Sep-8H AugAD Ju190 nL May? Apr9D Mart feb 9S

108 106
43

10s i (100-constant matury veld, weekly) 105
A ‘ata rource: Faded Rovere Board

soe i ewan Hor year cenredaverage toe
f\ ttn

FIGURE 10-5: DEVIATION OF TREASURY BOND INDEX FROM MOVING AVERAGE

Mr. Ganr’s pattern is then overlaid on the adjusted bond index, with the
objective of matching the primary trends. There is an extraordinarily close match
between the expected pattern and the actual movement in the Treasury bond
market. Three waves (1-2-3) into a left-biased peak are followed by a sharp fall
(A), a long three-wave recovery (a-b-c) and a final fall (C). The pattern of

100

--- PAGE 117 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

vibration hidden in Tinnel by Mr. Gann is obviously very meaningful in the
context of change.

There are, however, some differences between Mr. Gann’s pattern and actual
behaviour. In practice, waves 1 and 2 evolved much more quickly than might
have been expected; the final downswing within wave A was not as weak as might
have been anticipated; and the end of wave C was much stronger than might
have been expected. This strongly suggests that the overall picture provided by
the pattern is more important than its precision at lower levels. Indeed, if Mr.
Gann's objective was to deliver a great deal of information in a relatively small
container, some degree of variability would be inevitable. As already mentioned,
we shall address some of these issues in Chapters 13, 14 and 15.

CONCLUSION

The important conclusion is that the divergences do not seem significant enough
to invalidate the overall correspondences. So, although every market cycle will
undoubtedly have its own unique variations, caused by contemporaneous
fluctuations in the wider environment, the overall cycle should exhibit a very
specific pattern. Hence, there seems to be a non-random process at work that
exerts some degree of control over how oscillations are going to progress. This
is directly at odds with one of the persistent claims of economic theory.’

The structure of Mr. Gann’s book, The Tunnel Thru The Air, seems to have been
very carefully designed to ensure the transmission of esoteric information about
a law of vibration. He was not explicit about how to interpret the pattern, or
even about what it was for, but his implied hypothesis was that collective human
activities — of which financial markets are a good example — are organised
according to this pattern.

We shall unravel some of the details in later chapters. For the moment, it is
sufficient to know that his version of the pattern is significantly more detailed
than those presented by Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew, and that the detail
meant something. In order to make this apparent, we first need to look at the
work of Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew.

"See, for example, Burton G. Malkiel, A Random Wall Down Wall Sireet (W. W.Norton & Co., New York, 1973).
Also, Eugene Fama, ‘Random Walks in Stock Prices,, Financial Analysts Journal (September! October, 1965).

101

--- PAGE 118 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 119 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 11

GEORGE I. GURDJIEFF AND
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

“The knowledge of the enneagram has for a very long time been preserved in
secret and if it is now, so to speak, made available to all, it is only in an
incomplete and theoretical form.”

P.D. Ouspensky, quoting G. I. Gurdjieff

BEELZEBUB’S TALES

Having established the pattern of vibrations as visualised by Mr. Gann, we can
now have a look at the same pattern as it was defined by Mr. Gurdjieff. It is
more deeply hidden in Beelzebub’ Tales than it is in Tunnel, which is consistent
with the fact that Mr. Gurdjieff was known to have made some of his important
teachings as obscure as possible — a process that he called “burying the dog”: —
so that students had to work hard for their knowledge.: However, this also means
acknowledging that Mr. Gurdjieff intended to hide the pattern within the
structure of the book itself, and then had sufficient control over the structure of
the book in its published form to ensure that the information was included.

Both these assumptions are probably correct. Mr. Gurdjieff started to write
Beelzebub’ Tales in December 1924 and the final page proofs were made available
in October 1949, a week before he died. The book was not written quickly! In

"That is, che whole dog and nor just the bone, See Smith, Gurdjieff
Sections of the book were read aloud to pupils. If they were seen to understand the ideas too easily, then the text
was changed. Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff Astrology & Beelzebubis Tales

103

--- PAGE 120 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

fact, it is known that Mr. Gurdjieff persistently wrote and re-wrote Beelzebub’s
Tales, although he appears to have stopped doing so in 1935. This left him with
another 14 years to find a publisher and finalise the proofs.’It is therefore entirely
feasible that having formulated a structure for the book that could be used to
transmit extra information, he worked towards creating that structure.

The second assumption — that Mr. Gurdjieff then had final control over the
structure of the book — is difficult to verify. There are bound to be some doubts,
given that the publishers — Routledge & Kegan Paul in London, and Harcourt
Brace in New York — had reputations to maintain. Nevertheless, the fact that
these two companies were willing to publish Beelzebubs Tales in the first place,
and in a very specific physical shape, implies that the publishers had some
recognition of its importance.

The physical format of the original edition is unusual. If anything, it has the
same dimensions as a personal bible: it is 42” wide, 6%” long and 2” thick.
The front and back covers therefore each constitute a 2 x 3 rectangle, which in
fara references the active solar = of male energy of 666» Finally, of course; it
is also highly unlikely that Ms. Wellbeloved’s research, which was mentioned in
the previous chapter, would have been able to produce the conclusions that it
did had there not been some form of pre-determined order in the chapter
structure and page numbering.

Beelzebub’ Tales consists of 48 chapters and 1238 pages. The details are shown
in Appendix 5. The whole book is divided into three sub-books. This, according
to Sophia Wellbeloved, mirrors the Law of Three The first book is 408 pages
long, the second is 402 pages long and the third is 426 pages long. So, although
not precisely equal, they are of broadly similar lengths.” However, the number
of the chapters in each book differs significantly. The first book has 28 chapters,
the second has 11 chapters and the third has 14 chapters. Furthermore, there
are significant va
ample opportunity for embedding patterns in a number series that tracks the
quantities involved.

tions in the number of pages in each chapter. This gives

TH typescript was apparently available in 1929-30, Alfred Orage ‘roneoed’ one hundred copies for sale to people
working in groups. See Nott, Journey Through This World.
«Mr. Gurdjieff would probably not have been able to make any major adjustments to the final page proofs, so we
cannot be absolutely certain that the structure of the book is a completely accurate representation of his wishes.
* See Chapter 2. Beeleebub’ Tale is considered to be the active psychological force ina triad of books. The other two
books are Meetings With Remarkable Men (the reconciling force) and Life is Real, Only Then, When ‘I Am’ (the passive
force). See Hayes, Infinite Harmony.
It also represents the Biblical ideas of The Fall,
Beelzebubit Tales

Ie is also worth noting that Mr. Gann's Tivinel has 418 pages in toral, of which 406 relate directly to the complete
1-2-3/A-B-C vibration.

sation, and Redemption, Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff: Astrology &-

104

--- PAGE 121 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

THE HIDDEN PATTERN

Ms. Wellbeloved’s research indicates that Mr. Gurdjieff used the structure of
Beelzebub’ Tales to convey valuable information about the influence of planetary
cycles. This is beyond the subject matter covered here, but the important insight
is that he did so by grouping the 48 chapters into sets of four. The reason for
this — which will be re-emphasised in Chapter 12 —is based on the importance
of the number 12 in ancient thought. This number, as John Michell pointed

out in his book Dimensions of Paradise, was associated with the gods, the zodiac
and the majestic order of the heavens. Researchers would divide any large
number that was associated with gematria and numerology by 12 in order to
see what else might emerge. So it is with the number 48, where 48 divided by
12 equals 4. Some of the relevant data are shown in Table 11-1.

Chapter number | Number of pages | Proportion of total (%) | Change in pages (%)

4 67 8 i}

5-8 1 7 84

9-12 22 25 100

1316 31 33 4

17-20 93 42 200

21-24 120 50 29

25-28 66 58 -45

29-32 166 67 152

33-36 84 75 49

37-40 208 83 148

41-44 274 92 32

45-48 94 100 -66

TABLE 11-1; PAGE STRUCTURE OF BEELZEBUB'S TALES; FIRST, SECOND, AND THIRD BOOKS

The relationship between the number of pages in each set of four chapters and
the location of that set within the book is shown in Figure 11-1. There is an
overall rising trend, interrupted by contractions. The trend can be seen as an
impulsive five-wave movement (1-2-3-4-5), with the second wave being a simple
correction and the fourth wave formed from an irregular three-phase pattern
(a-b-c). Financial market analysts will quickly recognise the overall pattern as
being similar to the one identified as being a bull move by Ralph Nelson Elliott

Next, the changes in the number of pages between successive groups of four
chapters (see fourth column of Table 11-1) are plotted in Figure 11-2. The result
is really quite remarkable. The pattern is consistent with the configuration that
was found in Tunnel (see Figure 9-1). The configuration is obviously different

T Michell, Dimensions of Paradive
"Elliot, Wave Principle. Reprinted in Prechter, RN. Elliot.

105

--- PAGE 122 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

in terms of the extent of the swings, but it is nevertheless a left-biased
enneagram-type pulse. There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak.
This is followed by a sharp contraction (A), which ends halfway through the
pattern. This would be an energy gap. Then there is a volatile advance (B) that
divides into three sub-waves (a-b-c). And, finally, there is a sharp fall (C), which
brings the whole process to completion.

Position of chapter grouping in the sequence
o 2: 2 3 4 5&5 6 7 8 9 0 1
300 300

250 250

2s | 225

200 200

vs

150

ws

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

3

100

1s

so so

2s

° 2 °
© 14 $8 942 13.46 1720 2124 2528 2932 33-96 37-40 41-46 45-48
Chapter groupings

2s

FIGURE 11-1: PAGES AND CHAPTER GROUPINGS

Pattern details

One point is that the enneagram pulse emerges clearly only when momentum is
used. However, there are also other aspects of the pattern that need to be
mentioned. First, if the horizontal and vertical axes are given the same-sized
divisions, the pattern ends when the width of the whole pattern is equal to the
contemporaneous height. This means that, except for the peak of wave 3, the
whole pattern fits into a square. It also means that the pattern ends along the
45 degree line drawn from the start of the pattern. It is noteworthy that Mr.
Gann's pattern also exhibits a squaring (Figure 10-1 in Chapter 10).

106

--- PAGE 123 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

Percentof pattern elapsed

ow mo 0 30 © 7 8 $0 100
25 p— 225
200 | 200
15 } 175
180 4 150

|

re Bs

gz) z

$ 100 | m §

a | |

Bas] a 8

By 23 8

A

a, Jo 8
25 } 2s
so | } -50

A |
74 c I 75
28100 pe rr ++ -100

BA SB 942 1546 17-20 21-24 25-28 2932 3336 37-80 a1-4d 45-8
Chapter grouping

FIGURE 11-2: MR. GURDJIEFF'S HIDDEN VIBRATION

Second, the peak of wave 1 occurs at 100 units on the vertical axis and the peak
of wave 3 occurs at 200 units. Meanwhile, the trough of wave A and the trough
of sub-wave b occur around -50, and the peak of sub-wave a and the peak of
wave B occur at around 150. The data thus resonate with a vital aspect of the
Law of Seven: an octave has an inherent tendency to double and to halve. In the
diagram, the move to 200 (which references a second doubling) takes the pattern
out of the square. But the breakout is only temporary; it is followed by a sharp
fall to -50 (which references a halving). Mr. Gann is well known for
championing the use of doubling and halving to anticipate turning points in
financial markets.”

Third, the peak of wave 3 occurs 30% of the way through the pattern and the
trough of wave A (i.e. at the end of the energy gap) impacts at 50% of the way
through it. This — unsurprisingly — resonates with Mr. Gann’s pattern, where
the wave 3 peak occurs 33% along the width of the pattern and the trough of
wave A occurs 50% of the way along it. The peaks of wave A and wave B then
occur 60% and 80% respectively of the way through pattern.

"See, for example, Gann, 45 Year:

107

--- PAGE 124 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The fact that the architecture of a large and complex book like Beelzebub’s Tales
can be made to resonate with the detailed body of knowledge that is embedded
within it almost defies imagination. It is certainly a testament to the genius of
the man who conceptualised and implemented the project. But this is not the
end of the matter.

The first point is that there is no evidence from the available literature that Mr.
Gurdjieff included the concept ofa left-biased enneagram pulse in his teachings.
The extant teaching diagram is invariably a centred three-wave up/three-wave
down pattern. It may be relevant, therefore, that Pyotr Ouspensky quotes Mr.
Gurdjieff as saying: “The knowledge of the enneagram has for a very long time
been preserved in secret and if it now is, so to speak, made available to all, it is
only in an incomplete and theoretical form...”*

This strongly suggests that the left-biased pattern buried in the structure of
Beelzebub was not just nearer to the truth, but sufficiently close to that truth to
warrant preserving for subsequent researchers. The second point follows from
this. Mr. Gurdjieff would only have ensured that this pattern was preserved if
he considered that it carried genuine information about the very nature of our
existence. And so it does.

The pattern in practice

Figure 11.3 shows the pattern of one beat of the (approximately) 10-year cycle
in output that has been operating more or less continuously in the US since the
American Declaration of Independence in 1776. The cycle is tracked here by a
composite index that is calculated by the Institute for Supply Management
(ISM) in the US. The index monitors changes in employment, new orders,
inventories and supplier deliveries.

In principle, an index level above 50 is going to be associated with an expansion
in manufacturing, while an index level below 50 is likely to be associated with
acontraction. The particular cycle beat being shown is that for January 1991 to
October 2001. It is thus a relatively recent cycle and it covers a period when a
revolution in information technology was providing a genuine low-inflation
impulse to the economy.

Overlaid on the chart is the pattern deduced from Mr. Gurdjieff’s book. There
are short-term fluctuations in the ISM index that are not present in Mr. Gurdjieff’s
pattern, but the longer-term parallels are very clear. There are three waves (1-2-3)
into a left-biased peak. This peak is then followed sequentially by: a sharp
contraction (A), a three-wave recovery (a-b-c), and a final fall (C). The seven inner
turning points occur more or less where they should and the amplitude of the
wave b downswing within the a-b-c recovery is correctly predicted.

TOuspensky, Tn Search

108

--- PAGE 125 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION

CHAPTER 11
Percentot yi time elapsed
0 1 6 9 12 16 19 2 25 28 M1 Me F740 4 47 50.53 56 59 62 6S 68-71 _74-7R A ME AT 90 91-96 99
a a
ao | moments ae aver é
= yes crayon oars ‘ata source: Inset fer Supely Management

Indexlevel
Indextevel

FIGURE 11-3: MR. GURDJIEFF'S PATTERN AND THE 10-YEAR CYCLE IN PRODUCER CONFIDENCE

In this example, only a single beat of the 10-year cycle has been used because
the purpose is explicitly to confirm the potential presence of a deep wave b
downswing. Had the average of a number of beats of the cycle been used, there
would have been a tendency to iron out the fluctuations in individual cycles.
One important inference is that Mr. Gurdjieff exaggerated the wave b
downswing in order to emphasise its presence, not to insist that it was always
likely to be severe.

A SECOND HIDDEN PATTERN

It might have been enough if Mr. Gurdjieff had left the pattern in this simple
and straightforward form. However, he obviously had a point to make. In
particular, there may have been a desire to ensure that such an important pattern
was going to be found. So — as if to ensure that a researcher using other
methodologies might find the pattern — Mr. Gurdjieff included the left-biased
enneagram pulse a second time in Beelzebub’ Tales. In this instance, though, it
was reproduced backwards from the end of the book.

One of the sub-titles of the book is An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of
Man and one of Mr Gurdjieff’s specific criticisms was that humankind perceives

reality back to front: reality is seen as fantasy, and fantasy is perceived as reality."

So, it would not be surprising if Mr. Gurdjieff had built on this imagery.

"Gurdjielt, Beelzebubs Tales.

--- PAGE 126 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Beelzebub’ Tales consists of 48 chapters and the first chapter — which, like the
last chapter, has a different, more personal, content to the rest of the book —
consists of 48 pages. This draws attention to the number 48 and could be a clue
to the relevance of the 48th chapter. Hence, if Chapter 48 has to be taken as
the start of a vibration, then we are almost certainly referencing a descending
octave (because it cannot go any higher!). This suggests that the octave should
end where the vibration halves. If we start at 48, the vibration accordingly ends
at 24 —i.e. with the 24th chapter.

Details of the pages in all the chapters and the relevant percentage changes are
shown in Appendix 5. Table 11-2 shows the data for the 24th to 48th chapters
in reverse order. The results are plotted in Figure 11-4,

Reverse chapter | Changes (%) |Reverse chapter | Changes (%)
48 400.00 36 0.00
47 833 35 95.45
46 25.00 34 450.00
45 -38.46 33 ~42.86
44 -59.38 32 38.24
43 -53.28 3 54.67
42 191.49 30 108.33
4) -18.97 29 56.52
40 “15.94 28 -417
39 38.00 27 84.62
38 6129 26 116.67
37 933.33 2s -B125

TABLE 11-2: CHAPTERS 24-48 OF BEELZEBUB’S TALES IN REVERSE ORDER

The configuration is not just consistent with the first pattern derived from the
whole of Beelzebub Tales (Figure 11-2); its wave patterns are similar to that found
in Tunnel (Figure 10-1). The pattern is that of a left-biased enneagram pulse.
There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak. This is followed by an
energy gap in the form of a sharp contraction (A), which ends halfway through
the pattern. Then there is a volatile advance (B) that divides into three sub-waves
(a-b-c). Within this advance, the first upswing (a) is particularly marked, which
is what might be expected from a momentum measure following a significant
fall. Finally, there is a fall (C), which brings the whole process to completion.

There are a number of features in this pattern. The first is that a significant
momentum low is formed halfway through the pattern. Moreover, it is lower
than either of those formed at the start and the end of the pattern. This unusual
element also occurs in Mr. Gann’s composition (Figure 10-1). Another feature
is that, after the initial surge away from the mid-point low (wave a), momentum

10

--- PAGE 127 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

drops back sharply again (wave b). Again, Mr. Ganm's pattern includes the same
characteristic. Mr Gurdjieff’s pattern reaches its peak 40% of the way through
the pattern; it then reaches its wave b low 70% of the way through the pattern.
This means that the energy gap and its immediate after-shock last about 30%
of the whole pattern. Mr. Gann’s pattern reaches its peak 33% of the way
through the pattern and reaches a wave b low 62% of the way through the
pattern. Again, the elapse between the top of wave 3 and the low of wave b is
not far off 30%.

Percentof pattem elapsed
© 5 41 a6 21 26 82 37 42 47 53 58 63 68 76 79 84 89 95 100
shee fe anlar it $000

Change in number of pages (%)
‘Change in number of pages (%)

A c

200 po

48 47 a6 45 44 49 42 41 40 39 38 97 96 95 94 39.92 32 30 29 28 27 26 25 24.23
Chapternumber (reversed order)

} -100

FIGURE 11-4: CHANGE IN PAGES PER CHAPTER IN REVERSE ORDER

An example of the second pattern

As with Mr. Gurdjieff’s basic pattern, the pattern shown in Figure 11-4 can
easily be found in the real world. Figure 11-5 shows the six-month momentum
in the price of wheat during the inflationary disruption of 1973/74 and its
aftermath. On the one hand, the economic and political causes of the inflation
are relatively easy to enumerate. On the other hand, the whole process can be
tracked in terms of a patterned oscillation.

The 1973/74 inflation was the natural response to monetary conditions that
had been created between late-1969 and mid-1972. The ratcheting up of

There is a hint here of the Golden Ratio, 38.2:61.8.

mW

--- PAGE 128 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

inflation expectations was then brought to a peak by the outbreak of war in the
Middle East in October 1973 and the consequent oil embargo. Surging oil prices
fed through to other commodity prices. By February 1974, wheat prices were
almost five times higher than they had been in mid-1972.

Eventually, of course, the whole process went into reverse. The rise in prices
obviously deflated real incomes and interest rates were raised dramatically to
deal with rising inflation expectations. Economic weakness therefore developed
in 1974 and 1975. And, as the US economy weakened, so did the momentum
in commodity prices.

dT May? Sep 72 tan72 Map 78 Sep-72 Jan74 May.74 Sep-7E 75 Mp7 Sep79 Lan-76 My'T6SeB76
3
o (St Louis No 2 soft re, Sbushel, monthly) “0
‘ota source: Ghbal France! Date
] een memento wt pe r=

month change

150
‘an 72 May 72 Sep-72 tan 7 Moy73 Seb 79 Ian TA May? SepTE lanTS May7S Sep75 Ian7E May76 SeD76

b
fee f Master | see folate f
FIGURE 11-5: MOMENTUM IN THE PRICE OF WHEAT, 1972-76

Inner timings

Set against this fundamental’ explanation — although not opposed to it — is Mr.
Gurdjieff’s pattern. Once the initial information shock has been registered, the
pattern clearly anticipates subsequent movements. First, the pattern identifies the
move in wheat prices between mid-1972 and early 1973 as being the information
shock that eventually resulted in the 1973-74 explosion in wheat prices. Second,
Figure 11-5 shows that the whole process can be divided into four phases:

1. Shock and absorption,

2. Price explosion and collapse,

3. Aftershock from the collapse, and
f

Recovery and cycle completion.

--- PAGE 129 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

The time elapses of each of the first three phases are approximately equal to each
other and the time elapse of the fourth phase is about one and a half times the
length of each of its predecessors. To put the same thing another way: with Mr.
Gurdjieff’s diagram, the first three phases are equal in time; the second two
phases last 1-1/4 times the length of the first two phases; and the fourth phase
is half as long as the total time elapse of the first three phases.

Consequently, once the time elapse of the combined information shock and the
absorption process had finished, it would have been possible to obtain a broad
estimate both of the pattern of the subsequent price swings and of the associated
timings. In Figure 11-5, the information shock and absorption process started
in June 1972 and ended in June 1973 — i.e. 12 months. This meant that:

1. ‘The price explosion and collapse would also last about 12, months;
2. The aftershock would last about 12 months; and
3. The recovery and completion would last about 18 months.

As of June 1973, the whole process was scheduled to end in late 1976 or early
1977. And this is exactly what happened.

CONCLUSION

Mr Gurdjieff’s book, All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of
the Life of Man, or Beelzebub’ Tales to His Grandson, thus transmits two patterns
that are not only mutually consistent with one another, but are also similar to
that conveyed by Mr. Gann in The Tunnel Thru The Air. These patterns seem
to be a reflection of a fundamental law of vibration. If correct, there are two
extraordinary corollaries.

First, a cycle can be identified, and its existence confirmed, by its adherence to
the pattern of a left-biased enneagram-type pulse. Second, it means that
collective human behaviours — including economic behaviour — are subject to
hitherto unknown ordering principles. Both these conclusions have profound
implications for economic theory and for economic policy.

The patterns need to be explored in more detail and this will be done in Chapter
15. First, however, we need to look at St. Matthew's original revelation.

n3

--- PAGE 130 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 131 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 12

ST. MATTHEW’S GOSPEL AND
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

“I believe there was a secret meaning...”

W.D. Gann

A MIRACULOUS SIGN

In Tunnel Thru The Air, Mr. Gann allows his alter ego Robert Gordon to register
the importance of “the sign of the prophet Jonas” within the Gospel of St.
Matthew, and to state that there is a “secret meaning” in the phrase “the Son of
man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.” It is, says
Gann/Gordon, “the key to the interpretation of the future”.:

The first point to make is that St. Matthew's text appears to contain at least two
dimensions of interpretation, depending on whether the analysis uses the
adjusted text citing the prophet Jonas (/ovac) or the extant text referencing the
prophet Jonah (/ova). Both contain information about the geometric contents
of the text itself. As was shown in Chapters 4 and 5, when the Greek text is
adjusted to include an apparently missing “¢”, the “sign of the prophet Jonas”
may be interpreted as containing a reference to an objective dimension to Time.

As I shall now show, if the text is left in its unadjusted form, “the sign of the
prophet Jonah” reveals the same pattern of vibration that was found in Tunnel
and Beelzebub’ Tales.

"Gann, Tionel.

--- PAGE 132 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel is basically divided into two parts: the first
(verse 38) sets the scene, with the Pharisees “demanding a miraculous sign” from
Jesus; the second part is Jesus’ response. That response is itself split into two
sections. The first section (verse 39) defines both the nature of those who are
asking fora sign (“an evil and unfaithful generation”) and the nature of the sign
that was going to be given (“the sign of the prophet Jonah”). The second section
(verse 40) then defines the contents of the sign (“For as Jonas was three days
and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the Son of man be three days
and three nights in the heart of the earth”).

THE LAW OF THREE

In the Greek text, Jesus’ verbal response consists of just 48 words.: A closer
inspection reveals that this response contains a number of allusions to the Law
of Three and to the Golden Ratio. First, Jesus’ response can be seen in three sections
of almost equal length: verse 39 consists of 18 words; the first half of verse 40
(referencing Jonas in the belly of the whale) consists of 14 words; and the second
half (referencing the Son of man in the heart of the earth) consists of 16 words.
On the continuing assumption that Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel is the
vehicle for genuine revelation,’ even these numbers appear significant.

Astarting point is the 18 words of verse 39. This 18 reduces to the number 9 (the
“ennead”) — that is, 1 + 8 = 9. This is the number of completion and initiation.
As shown in Chapter 3, however, the number 18 is the sum of the digits in the
number 1746 (the number of fusion) and in the number 666 (the number of the
active energy in creation). It is also a contraction of 1080 (the number of the
receptive energy in creation). These three numbers are related to one another by
the Golden Ratio, 0.618:1. The appearance of the number 18 is always going to
presume a reference to the Law of Three, the Trinity and the Golden Ratio.

The number 14 — which is the number of words in the first half of verse 40 —
reduces to the number 5 (the “pentad”) — that is, 1 + 4 = 5. This particular
number has obtained a degree of notoriety that is almost as great as that achieved
by the number 666. The misuse of the five-sided star known as the pentagram
has caused it to be associated with hedonism and power-seeking. However, in
its original usage, the number 5 had two very important associations — with
humankind and with the Golden Ratio. The former arises out of the parallel
between a man standing with his legs apart and his arms outstretched, so that
his 5 extremities — two legs, two arms and a head — are emphasised. The latter

“Aland, New Testament.

"This was Mr. Gann's presumption.

‘The number 9 is also the number that is most closely associated with Mr. Gurdjieff’s enneagram.
“This was used by Leonardo Da Vinci in his drawing known as Vetruvian man.

n6

--- PAGE 133 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

arises from the fact that the Golden Ratio ($ = 0.618:1) can be calculated from
a simple equation that uses the number 5. That

@=(1+V5)/2

The number 16 — which is the number of words in the second half of verse 40
—is the third number derived from Jesus’ response to the Pharisees. The number
16 reduces to the number 7 (the “heptad”) — that is, 1 + 6 = 7. The heptad is
known as the virgin number because it cannot be multiplied by another whole
number to produce a number between 1 and 10; nor can any two numbers
between | and 10 be multiplied by one another to produce the number 7.
Hence, the number 7 cannot generate and cannot be generated. This gave the
number a sense of being somehow introduced into the world of phenomena
from the world of the sacred.

In fact, the number 7 was traditionally associated with the measurement of time.’
It therefore seems to be no accident that — as was shown in Chapter 5 — this
specific verse within St. Matthew's Gospel contains an extraordinary insight into
the objective nature of time. The number 7 is also a direct reference — via the
seven tones in a musical octave — to the Law of Seven. And this, of course, is
another name for the law of vibration.

THE GOLDEN RATIO

The Golden Ratio — and therefore the Law of Three — is also embedded in the
number of words in Jesus’ response to the Scribes and Pharisees. First, the ratio
between the number of spoken words in verse 39 (i.e. 18 words) and the total
number of words in verse 39 and 40 (i.e. 48) is 0.375:1. Second, the ratio of the
difference between 48 and 18 (i.e. 30) to the total (i.e. 48) equals 0.625:1. The
presence of these ratios may appear to be no more than an interesting by-product
of meeting other objectives. Nevertheless, it is also true that the ratio 0.375:0.625
is very close to the Golden Ratio, 0.38:0.62. Indeed, 18 and 30 are the only
numbers that can separate 48 into two parts that approximate the Golden Ratio.

There are, however, three additional references to the Golden Ratio in verses 39
and 40 that‘are even more specific. Fisst, dhe sumiof theaymbolic values ofall
the words in verse 39 is 10,063, while the sum of the values in verse 40 is
16,359. The ratio between the two numbers is therefore 62%. This means, of

See Michell, Dimensions of Paradise. The number 28 also has an association with cyeles, via its relationship to the
number 7. The sum of the first seven numbers between 1 and 10 equals 28, and 28/4 = 7. The number 28 may
have been important to Mr. Gurdjieft’s book, Beelzebub’ Tales. See Appendix 6

5:1 and 30:48 = 0.625:1. Alternatively, 17:49 = 0.35:1 and (49-17):49 = 0.65:1; or 19:47 = 0.40:1
0.60:1.

n7

--- PAGE 134 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

course, that verse 39 has a symbolic value equal to 38% of the value of verse 39
plus verse 40."

Second, and as shown in Table 5-1 in Chapter 5, the value by gematria of “the
belly of the whale” is 2272, while the value of “Jonas in the belly of the whale
three days and three nights” is 5919. Consequently, “the belly of the whale” is
38% of the whole phrase and, by deduction, the rest of the phrase (i.e. without
“the belly of the whale”) is 62% of the whole.

Third, and again as shown in Table 5-1, the symbolic value of “three days and
three nights” is 2586, while the value of “the Son of man in the heart of the
earth three days and three nights” is 6834. Hence, “three days and three nights”
is 38% of the whole phrase and “the Son of man in the heart of the earth” is
62% of the whole phrase.

Each of these three calculations provides a direct reference to the Golden Rat
0.38:0.62 and, therefore, to the Law of Three. This is not only astonishing in its
own right, but also suggests that the analysis is on the right track. Attention is
undoubtedly being drawn to the relationships within verses 39 and 40 in general,’
and to the relationships within Jesus’ verbal response to the Scribes and Pharisees
in particular. We therefore need to look more closely at the latter. Table 12-1
accordingly shows the numeric values, by gematria, of the relevant words.

Word number [Value | Word number | Value |Word number] Value |Word number | Value
1 64 3 48 2 14 37 770
2 309 [14 370_ [26 770 [38 1510
3 a (is 3e3__([27 998 [39 55
4 96 [16 eer (| 28 65 [40 308
5 3e3_[i7 770 [29 354i Ed
6 45 [18 1528 [30 342 508
7 a «fB _ [nes [3 es _([43 2
8 383 [20 104 [32 on [44 a5
9 470 [ai 58 [33 770 [45 354
10 607 [22 Tos _ [34 516 [46 ai
7 709_[z 55 [35 70 (47 65
2 is _ [2a 308 [36 680 [48 m7

TABLE 12-1: GEMATRIAN VALUES OF JESUS' RESPONSE IN VERSES 39 & 40

T The accuracy of the Golden Ratio relationship between the gematrian values of verses 39 and 40 when the name
of the prophet is left as “Jonah” suggests that the omission of the letter “c” in the extant version of the text was
purposeful. It doesn't mean that “Jonas” cannot then be used for a deeper search. In any case, the numbers involved
are sufficiently large for the calculation to apply whether or not the name of the prophet is Jonah or Jonas. The
extra value of 200 assigned to the letter “6” does not make much difference: if the extant text is used, the ratio
becween the values is 62%; if adjusted text is used, the ratio is 63%. Both invoke the Golden Ratio, 0.62:1.

*Ie is worth noting again that William Gann, in Tinel, makes what should be Chapter XXXIV into Chapter XXXIX.

8

--- PAGE 135 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAH

The first point is that verses 39 and 40 taken together consist of 48 words, which
parallels the 48 chapters in Beelzebub’s Tales. This means that important
information is likely to become apparent if 48 is divided by 12. This latter, it
will be remembered, was traditionally associated with the zodiac and with the
dimensions of heaven.” Furthermore, it is almost certainly not an accident —
and is therefore a vital clue — that the whole structure of “the sign of the prophet”
is made available in Chapter /2 of St. Matthew's Gospel.

Obviously, the result of dividing 48 by 12 is the number 4. This, in turn,
references the square (in particular) and the rectangle, both of which were
discussed in Chapter 4. The use of four dimensions gives stability to any
structure; and Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel is no exception. Table 12-2
shows the profile of the gematrian value of the Greek words in verses 39 and 40
when successive batches of four words are consolidated." Figure 12-1 shows the
graphical results, with the sequence of word groupings measured against the
absolute gematrian values of those groupings.

Word group | Gematrian value | Change in value
+4 1365

5-8 1222 143
912 1801 579
13-16 1662 139
17-20 3587 1925
21-24 1482 -2105,
25-28 2497 1015
29-32 1971 526
33-36 3036 1065
37-40 2643 -393
41-44 1470 “173
45-48 1971 501

TABLE 12-2: WORD STRUCTURE OF VERSES 39 & 40

The results are — again — simply extraordinary. The emergent diagram is a left-
biased enneagram pulse. There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak.
This is followed by a sharp contraction (A), which would be an energy gap.

"Tris relevant to the argument that the number 12 generate all the Important numbers in music and in harmonic
proportion. Hence, its heavenly properties. This contrasts with the number 10, which has unique properties in
terrestrial mathematics. It is highly unlikely that the chapter numbers and verse numbers in St. Matthew's text are
random, Chapter 12 makes direct reference to the number 12, which turns out to be very important for the
calculations, The setup for “the sign of the prophet” starts with verse 38. This may be a reference to ~ and therefore
an instruction to search for — the Golden Ratio, 38:62::62:1

“See Appendix 2.

ng

--- PAGE 136 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Then there is a volatile advance (B) that divides into three sub-waves (a-b-c).
And, finally, there is a sharp fall (C), which brings the whole process to
completion. As calculated, the cycle runs over only 10 of the word groupings,
thereby suggesting that the first grouping ends a previous cycle and the 12th

grouping starts a new one.

The pattern is, undoubtedly, the sign of the prophet Jonah.

Word grouping

|
‘ao00 |

3650

300

2980

2600

‘Total pematrian value

1850

1200

aso

14 58 942 1346 1720 2124 2528 2932 3336 3740 A144 4548

00 —-

‘4000
3300
2950

2600

1550
1200

450

soo

Total gematrian value

1458 912 1546 1720 2124 2528 2932 3336 37-40 148 A548
Word grouping

FIGURE 12-1: GEMATRIAN VALUES OF GROUPED WORDS

Importantly, the shape of the diagram changes only very marginally if the
gematrian value for Jonah, in “the sign of the prophet Jonah” is replaced with
the value of “Jonas”. The extra value of 200 applied to the 16th word in Table
12-1 translates into a value of 1862 in the grouping of the 13th to 16th words
in Table 12-2. The effect is only to eliminate the wave 2 fall in Figure 12-1. This
is shown in Figure 12-2. In a practical sense, therefore, it doesn't seem to matter
whether the name of the prophet is “Jonas” rather than “Jonah”.

120

--- PAGE 137 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST, MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

Word;

14 $8 942 1246 1720 2128 25.28 2932 1936 3740 ML4d ASB

oi ae hee
}

4000

‘Total gematrian value
‘Total gematrian value

— 500
14S 912 1816 1720 2126 2528 2932 3336 3740 Aad 4548
Word grouping

FIGURE 12-2: THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET

ST. MATTHEW’S PATTERN IN THE FINANCIAL
MARKETS

The equity crash of 1987

As with the wave patterns produced by Mr. Gurdjieff and Mr. Gann, St.
Matthew's esoteric pattern can only become meaningful if it actually exists in
the exoteric world. There is no question that it does. Figure 12-3 shows the
equity crash of 1987, as reflected in the UK’s FTSE100 index and in a six-month
percentage change in that index. Overlaid on the chart is St. Matthew's “sign of
the prophet Jonah/Jonas”. The pattern shows a three-wave rise (1-2-3) into a
left-biased peak that is then followed by: a sharp contraction (A), a three-wave
recovery (a-b-c) during a wave B advance, and an end-process fall (C).

There are three very significant points here. The first is that, while the timings
are not absolutely precise, the overall match between the predictive pattern and
the actual outcome is exceptionally good. This means that each stage of the
pattern was a natural development from what went before: the wave A crash
followed the 1986-87 bubble; the three-phase wave B followed the crash; and
the process was not complete until some form of wave C correction had

121

--- PAGE 138 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

materialised. Just the simple knowledge of this process would have been
immensely helpful once the shock of the crash had materialised.

Mass Rows May86 Nove Mays? Nov? Mp8 Oct May89—OWLaD—Apr90 0:90
ETSE100 8
(Weekly) 3 ©

2400 | Data source Bloomberg Fi

month’ change

Marts | Novas MayS6 NSS Mays? NS? Mapdd OER Mp9 OA. 90 Oct 90

FIGURE 12-3: EQUITY CRASH OF 1987

The second point follows from this. A bubble and crash in any financial market
is profoundly disruptive. St. Matthew's pattern therefore represents the insertion
of a shock into a financial market. So it can be seen as a symbol of new
information and the signature of change. In theory, the initial information shock
itself is carried by waves 1, 2 and 3 of the pattern. However, the actual change
process is only initiated when a collapse occurs. I shall be addressing this
phenomenon in a little more detail in Chapter 13. In the meantime, we can
conclude that wave A of the pattern confirms the validity of the original
information and reflects the start of the process of necessary adjustment.

The third important point is that, once the pattern has emerged, a system will
have been changed forever. Its deep-structure will have mutated into a different
format, and it will be unable to return to the situation that existed prior to the
impact of new information. In this sense, a bubble-and-crash episode is likely to
represent the start of a whole new era, rather than just reflect the destruction of
an old way of doing things. In December 1999, the FTSE100 was about 3.5 times
higher than it was at the end of St. Matthew's change cycle in September 1990.

122

--- PAGE 139 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

The bubble and crash in the Nikkei

‘Théseiobeerqations allow’us to duw.tome importanteondusionsaboutondol
the longest bubble-and-crash episodes in living memory — that of the Japanese
stock market. Figure 12-4 shows the pattern of the Japanese Nikkei Stock
Average, starting in 1973. There is obviously some slippage in the actual
performance against the expected outcomes, and the sheer dynamism of the
bubble suggests that it would be better represented by the pattern of “Jonas”
from Figure 12-2 rather than the pattern of “Jonah”.

Nevertheless, the formation underlying the whole movement between 1982 and
2003 is unmistakeable. In particular, there is a left-bias to the pattern, and the
surge into the peak is followed by a long three-wave move down into the end of
the process. There may, of course, be a larger version of the pattern operating,
but the current inference is that the process of change that began in 1982 is
actually over. This means, first, that a new era is already underway and that,
second, the 2003-07 advance and subsequent collapse are properly part of the
start of that new era.

1972 3975 1977 1979 2981 1983 1985 1987 1989 1991 1983 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2008 2011

~ : oo
Nikkei k
wit iets
woo| annette, so
- ai
_ In,
1. ml
i i
te

1978 1975 1977 1979 Y9H) 19K3 3985 1987 LoRe see1” 1963 1985 3997 19992002 2009 2008 2607" 2008 7011

FIGURE 12-4: JAPANESE NIKKEI, 1973 TO 2012

THE HUMAN HEARTBEAT

For completion, we can use the data in Table 12-2 to construct a chart based on
changes in the gematrian values of verses 39 and 40 in St. Matthew's text. The
results are shown in Figure 12-5. The vertical axis tracks the changes in the values

123

--- PAGE 140 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

when the text is grouped into batches of four words, and the horizontal axis shows
the associated word groupings. Again, the pattern is that of a left-biased
enneagram pulse, although the downswings are very much more pronounced
compared with those in Figure 12-1. What is striking about this particular
presentation is that it has parallels with the electrical activity of a human heart,
as measured by a modern electrocardiogram (ECG). See Figure 12-6.

The notation used by medical professionals to identify specific phases of the
heartbeat — P, Q, R, S, T and U — need not concern us here. But it is quite clear
that: the rise to P and the fall to Q correspond to waves 1 and 2 of the
enneagram pulse; the R-wave and the S-wave correspond to waves 3 and A; the
rise to T matches the three-phase wave B; and the final downswing from T
corresponds to wave C. The U-wave of the heartbeat is included for completion,
but it is only occasionally present and is therefore usually assumed not to occur.
The whole pattern is suitably left-biased, but the eye-catching element is the
amplitude both of the R-wave (which is very dynamic) and of the subsequent
S-wave (which makes a new low).

Word grouping
14 G8 942 1946 17.20 21-26 2528 29.82 3836 3740 ALAA A

2500

2000 2000

1500

1500

00

00

1000 1000

CChange in gematrian value

‘change ingematrian value

3500 1500

2000 2000

2500 2500

3000 3000
1458 912 1316 1720 2124 25-28 2952 3336 37-40 4144 45-48

Word grouping

FIGURE 12-5: CHANGE IN GEMATRIAN VALUES OF GROUPED WORDS

124

--- PAGE 141 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

FIGURE 12-6: THE HUMAN HEARTBEAT

CONCLUSION

But what does this mean? The “sign of the prophet” was obviously considered to
be so important that it had to be given in concise terms, but in a way that hid its
true nature from the casual (and, indeed, not-so-casual) reader. But it seems valid
to ask how the full implications of the text could possibly have been known at the
time? How, for example, could a symbol hidden in an ancient text be applicable
to a modern index of collective human behaviour? Or to the human heartbeat?
In fact, would the sign even have been recognised as such, had its footprint been
detected in the non-scientific milieu that existed when it was written?

St Matthew's Gospel was written sometime in the first century after the death of
Jesus. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the exact dating of the Gospel,
with estimates ranging from 38-45 CE to well into the second half of the first
century." However, even if we take a later date, the work is at least 1900 years old.

As mentioned in Chapter 4, we cannot know whether the Gospel’s hidden
contents have remained untainted since it was originally written. There is, for
example, the issue about whether the sign given by Jesus is the “sign of the prophet
Jonah” or the “sign of the prophet Jonas”. On the one hand, the absence of the

7 There isa split between Catholic and Protestant researchers, The former tend to favour earlier dates: the latter,
later ones. Some German theologians go so far as to place the date in the early years of the second century CE. See
Jacque Eugene Jacquier, ‘Gospel of St. Matthew’, in The Catholic Encyclopedia (Robert Appleton Company, New
York, 1911). Part of the uncertainty derives from the possibility that the first version was written in St. Matthew's
native tongue, Hebrew. However, the Greck version is regarded as being canonical - that is, belonging to the rules,
laws and traditions of Chris

ity.

125

--- PAGE 142 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

letter “¢” in the name of the prophet “/aava” in canonical Greek texts allows that
some changes could have been made — whether by accident or design — to the
earliest versions. On the other hand, of course, the omission could have been a
purposeful method of drawing attention to an important piece of information.

In either case, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that a truly ancient work of
literature, which is regarded as central to the beliefs of one of the world’s great
religions in its exoteric form, not only contains a significant body of esoteric
knowledge but also is able to convey that knowledge in a small volume of Greek
text.” This is an extraordinary conclusion, given that the vast majority of
humanity at the time were uneducated and immersed in what might be called
pre-rational consciousness."

In just 48 words, St Matthew's Gospel references a series of geometric diagrams
involving the vesica piscis (Chapter 4), the possible objective nature of time
(Chapter 5), and a very specific wave pattern (this chapter). Centuries later, Mr.
Gurdjieff suggested that the wave pattern represented some form of universal
constant — the signature of the way in which change and evolution is transmitted
through a living universe, from the higher reaches of the cosmos to the lower
reaches of the micro-world.

The direct inference is that St. Matthew's Gospel contains a revelation that has
remained hidden for the best part of two millennia. Moreover, if the findings
of this book are correct, then that revelation includes a blueprint for the various
natural behaviours of living organisms that — even with a cursory analysis — is
consistent with modern evidence. The implications are truly staggering. Perhaps
we can take a few small steps towards unravelling some of them.

TPethaps there is more, very significant, information hidden in the text It is also worth adding that, in
conttadistinction to modern beliefs, ancient wisdom ~ as reflected in the importance of the numbers 48, 12 and 4
= seems to have incorporated a belief in the relevance of the Zodiac

“"Pre-rational consciousness is prior to formal operational thinking and propositional, or hypothetico-deductive,
reasoning. Itis likely to be based on the pursuit of archaic physiological needs, a reliance on magical images, symbols
and rudimentary concepts, and conformity with myzhical tribal belies, See Ken Wilber, Eye to Eye: The Quest for a
New Paradigm (Shambhala Publications, Boston (Ma), 1983).

126

--- PAGE 143 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 13

A UNIVERSAL PATTERN
OF VIBRATION

“The principle of the discontinuity of vibration means the definite and
necessary characteristic of all vibrations in nature... to develop not uniformly
but with periodical accelerations and retardations.”

P. D. Ouspensky

SECRET KNOWLEDGE

The conclusion from the foregoing chapters is that three very different sources
— George Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’ Tales, William Gann’s Tunnel Thru The Air and
St. Matthew's sign of the prophet Jonas — contained, in a concealed form, specific
patterns that had implications beyond the context in which they were presented.
Moreover, it is already clear that the patterns look very similar to one another.
In other words, all three authors were presenting their own versions of one
particular construct.

So, why was it considered important to hide this pattern? Mr. Gurdjieff was
very fond of, as he put it, “burying the dog” (and not just the bone): so that
people had to work for the knowledge that they received. Mr. Gann was
probably right in believing that, in 1927 when he published Tisnnel, the “general
public [was] not yet ready for it and probably would not understand or believe
it’s And the science of numbers and letters in the time of St. Matthew was

John G, Bennett, Gurdjieff’ Making a New World (Harper & Row, New York, 1976)
°Gann, Tunnel.

127

--- PAGE 144 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

specifically reserved for a small intellectual elite who would seek out hidden
meanings from holy scriptures in order to be able to confirm personal evolution
and higher cosmic purposes.

Nevertheless, even these explanations —as valid as they are— do nor fully address
the inference that the pattern is in some way extraordinarily meaningful — and
perhaps even dangerous. First, there is no obvious reason within the context of
St. Matthew's text for the pattern to be presented at all. The pattern therefore
emerges as a genuine revelation. Had people deduced its presence 1900 years
ago, they could well have believed that they were dealing with something beyond
the teachings of Christianity and therefore hazardous. Furthermore, I have
always felt that Mr. Gann (who claimed that St. Matthew's text was his source)
may have become concerned at some stage in his life about a potential misuse
of the pattern, and therefore spent the latter years of his life trying to bury it.’
His stock trading courses were cettainly good enough to be effective, but they
may also have helped to divert attention from the truth of what he'd found.

Perhaps we'll never know; but the most important possibility is that the hidden
pattern is a universal constant — an archetypal pattern of vibration that somehow
permeates the whole of the cosmos. This was Mr Gurdjieff’s contention.

THE PATTERNS COMPARED

With these thoughts in mind, we can now look at the patterns of vibration
provided by the three authors. In doing so, however, it needs to be emphasised
that all interpretations should be regarded as being only work in progress. An
attempt, after all, is being made to concretise something that Mr. Gurdjieff
explicitly, and St. Matthew implicitly, regarded as being a fundamental principle
behind what might be called “deep structure” processes within the universe. Any
such attempt needs to be approached carefully, and in the certain knowledge
that full answers will remain elusive.

Asa start, the patterns can be shown together, so that they can be judged visually
in relation to one another. Figure 13-1 therefore shows the patterns as they
emerge directly from their respective texts. It includes both of Mr. Gurdjieft’s
patterns as well as those of St. Matthew and Mr. Gann.

TThis is, of course, only an opinion. But ics relevant that Mr. Gann does not appear t have made a great deal of
effort promoting The Tunnel Thru The Air

128

--- PAGE 145 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

Percentot pattern elapsed
0 1 20 30 4 So 60 70 80 9 100
250 +

— . — 250
a From George Gurdjieffs Beelzebub'sTales ”
3 i

200

vs

150

100

5

so

25

Change innumber of pages (%)

Change innumber of pages (%)

1s

100 + ——-
14 $8 942 13-16 17-20 21-24 25-28 29-32 33-36 37-40 41-44 45-48,
Chaptergrouping

FIGURE 13-1A: THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

Percentof pattern elapsed
5 2 6 21 26 32 37 42 47 53-58 63 GE 74 79 84 89 95 100
1200 j—* “ f 1200

From George Gurdjieff's Beelzebub's Tales
1100 1100

1000 1000
‘ 3

Change in number of pages ()

Change in number of pages (%)

ee Be -200
ee ee ee ee

Chapter number(reversed order)

FIGURE 13-1B: THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

129

--- PAGE 146 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

‘Total gematrian value

4380

4000

3650

3300

2950

2600

2250

1900

1550

2200

500

Percentof pattern elapsed
o 1 2 3s 48 6 G7 78 89100

From St. Matthew's Sign ofthe ProphetJonas

3

24 $8 942 1346 1720 2224 2528 2932 33.36 3740 4148
Word grouping

FIGURE 13-1C; THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

Number of pages

Percent of 35 chapters
0 6 2 mh Mm 2 35 41 47 SS 88 6S OT 7% A Be OW

4350

4000

3650

2350

2600

1900

1550

1200

850

$00

45.48

100

From William Gann's Tunnel Thru The Air
3

A

1°35 7 9 41 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33

Chapternumber

FIGURE 13-1D: THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

130

Total gematrian value

Number of pages

--- PAGE 147 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

Figure 13-2 shows St. Matthew's pattern compared with Mr. Gann’s, and Figure
13-3 shows St. Matthew's pattern compared with Mr. Gurdjieff’s primary pattern.

Pereentot eye elapsed
3 Patterns of Vibration
2) 0c to th. seal, ower) |

=

‘mumberol pages per chapter

Gemavianvalesof groups of four words

A

03 6 Oh me 2629 9

Percentof eye elapsed

FIGURE 13-2: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERNS OF VIBRATION: ST. MATTHEW AND W.D. GANN

Percentol eye elapsed
° s 2 a ra Pe ° ” ® 1
Patterns of Vibration
3 ns of Vibration |
20 4 me certs pater tn ee, omer an

ees
F, 3500

Gematianvaluesof groups of four words

° % » x0 o 0 © cy ” 90 00
Percentof cycle elapsed

FIGURE 13-3: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERNS OF VIBRATION: ST. MATTHEW AND G.I. GURDJIEFF

Figure 13-4 shows St. Matthew's pattern compared with the second of Mr.
Gurdjieff’s patterns — i.e. the one in Figure 13-1B. To help the comparisons,

131

--- PAGE 148 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

divisions of one-third, half and two-thirds of the horizontal width of the patterns
are marked out. In addition, the established cycle notation (1-2-3/A-B-C) is
applied just to St. Matthew's pattern, but on the understanding that it is
applicable to all three patterns.

Percent lptes
“i 3 Patterns of Vibration
2" a
H H
i" i
$ :
3 200
eu ;

Percentof cycle lapsed

FIGURE 13-4: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERNS OF VIBRATION: ST. MATTHEW AND G.I. GURDJIEFF

It is immediately apparent that the four patterns are essentially the same. There
are differences in the extent of the swings and, at one extreme, St. Matthew's
pattern is relatively simple while, at the other extreme, Mr. Gann’s is complex.
Nevertheless, all four patterns have a very specific locus at their core: there is a
rising three-phase (1-2-3) pattern into a peak, followed by a three-phase (A-B-
C) movement into a final low. The whole configuration has a left bias to it: the
wave 3 peak occurs about a third of the way through the pattern; the wave A fall
is very pronounced and occurs about halfway through the whole pattern; the
wave B rally consists of three internal swings (a-b-c) and is relatively prolonged;
and the final wave C fall is swift, but not as pronounced as the wave A collapse.

An anomaly

‘There is, however, an apparent anomaly that needs to be addressed. The patterns
are certainly consistent with one another, but they diverge from the
enneagram/price pulse patterns of Chapters 8 and 9 in one important sense:
wave B within each of the patterns consists of three sub-waves (up-down-up)
whereas the original enneagram pulse showed only one up-wave. How can this

difference be explained?

132

--- PAGE 149 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

One possible answer is that wave B of a pulse is modulated by the fluctuations
of an inner octave. Figure 13-5 reproduces Figure 8-12 from Chapter 8. It shows
how the corners of a triangle (representing the Law of Three) coincide with the
notes Fa, La and Do!" In the absence of an internal shock at Me — or an external
shock at So — Fa and La act as barriers that keep the flow of energy trapped
within the circuit. Consequently, after receiving the initial stimulus at Do the
flow of energy starts at Re and proceeds in six waves around the enneagram.
Within this flow, the move from Me to Ti corresponds to wave 3 of the
vibrations in Figures 13-2 to 13-4, the drop from Ti to So corresponds to wave
A, and the move from So to La matches wave B.

The important point here is that the notes Re, Me and So initiate inner octaves
(see Table 6-4 of Chapter 6). Each of these inner octaves will therefore exhibit
their own six-wave pattern; and, within each, there is going to be a drop from
Ti to So. It is this drop that would produce the lower-level wave b within the a-
b-c pattern that then constitutes the higher-level wave B. If the whole enneagram
pulse is lefe-biased, such that the rising wave B evolves relatively slowly, then
the drop might be very pronounced. This is reflected in Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern.

9/0
Second Do"/Do

energy gap
Ti Re

Me

First energy
gap

La Fa

So

FIGURE 13-5: THE DIATONIC ENNEAGRAM

The left bias and the nature of learning

The idea that the pattern of vibration is intrinsically left-biased introduces some
important considerations about the nature of learning. In Chapter 8, it was

133

--- PAGE 150 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

argued that the Mills-Hebb learning pattern was a three-wave process: there was
an initial information shock (i.e. wave 1 of a 1-2-3 profile), a period of absorption
(wave 2), and then a process of application (wave 3). The left-biased pulse now
adds a potential qualification to this process because it suggests that there are two
‘layers’ of learning: the first (which corresponds to the Mills-Hebb pattern) is an
inner adaptation; the second (which is the new insight) is deep structure change.
The point of difference is that the former involves taking an unchanged system
to its limits, while the latter means actually changing the system.

Hence, an initial information shock will take a system to its inner limits, but if
the environment continues to exert stress on that system, then the whole of the
original three-wave movement becomes an information shock which changes
the system itself. This is shown in Figure 13-6. The 1-2-3 advance in the first
half of the diagram represents the initial quantitative behaviour within an
unchanged system. The wave A contraction represents the shudder within the
system as it finds itself no longer able to cope without structural change. Then
the second half of the diagram represents the behaviour of the system after inner
qualitative change has taken place.

Maximum stress
with unchanged system

Maximum dislocation at
start of changed system

FIGURE 13-6: ADAPTIVE LEARNING AND SYSTEM CHANGE

‘Bateson, Mind and Nature, Bateson also included a chird adjustment — namely, genetic mutation in response to
environmental change.

134

--- PAGE 151 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

ANALYSING THE PATTERNS IN MORE DETAIL

We can now move ahead, and analyse the patterns in more detail. For simplicity,
the second of Mr. Gurdjieff’s patterns — i.e. the one derived from reversing the
chapters and associated pages — will be put to one side. The following analysis
therefore just concentrates on the patterns presented in Figures 13-2 and 13-3.

In what follows, I shall start with Mr. Gann’s version of the pattern. There are two
reasons for this. First, at a mundane level, Mr. Gann undoubtedly gave a great
deal of thought to the subject. In fact, Mr. Gann basically devoted a whole book
of 36 chapters and 418 pages just to expressing the pattern, albeit in a hidden
form. This is in contrast to Mr. Gurdjieff, whose 48 chapters and 1238 pages were
devoted to far more than just illustrating a pattern of vibration. Both are starkly
in contrast to St. Matthew's pattern, which was defined in only two verses
consisting in total of 48 words! It is possible therefore that Mr. Gann’s pattern is
a much more detailed version of those offered by Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew.

The second reason for concentrating on Mr. Gann’s pattern follows from this.
His attention to detail hints at the possibility of additional information. That
is, Mr. Gann’s pattern might include information that was not provided by the
other two. This does, indeed, turn out to be the case.

The Gann pattern

As discussed in Chapter 10, Mr. Gann's pattern is clearly divided into two equal
phases: the falling wave A finishes 50% of the way through the pattern; the low
of that wave is the lowest low of the pattern; and the low itself is formed by a
distinctive data point. Moreover, the second phase recapitulates the first phase,
although with significant differences in the velocities involved.

The second point is that waves 1 and 2 of Mr Gann’s pattern are much more
pronounced than the corresponding waves in the patterns imparted by Mr.
Gurdjieff and St. Matthew. Without this emphasis, Mr. Gann’s overall pattern
would not divide into two equal phases. In Chapter 10 it was suggested that
the structure of waves | and 2 indicated that they formed an initial information
shock from which subsequent oscillations emerged. These subsequent
oscillations consisted of two beats, or two sets of advances and contractions. In
the diagrams of Mr. Gann’s pattern (e.g. Figure 10-1), these two oscillations are
waves 3 and A, followed by waves B and C. On this interpretation, the whole
diagram consists of three oscillations, not just two; and this, in turn, implies
the presence of the Law of Three. It can then be argued that each of the three
beats might have a different function in relation to the whole: for example, the
first beat initiates a process; the second beat fulfils the stimulus; and the third
beat terminates the process.

135

--- PAGE 152 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The third point, in a sense, follows from the second. Once we start looking
behind the apparent rigidity of Mr. Gann’s dualistic pattern, a whole new set of
relationships emerges, which involve the Golden Ratio. At a very simple level,
and as was shown in Figure 10-2, Mr. Gann’s pattern is not just divided into
two equal parts, it is also divided into two unequal, but related, parts.
Specifically, the ratio of the larger part of the vibration to the smaller part is
defined by the Golden Ratio, 0.618:0.382. As described in Chapter 3, such
expressions of the Ratio distinguish passive energies from active energies. The
larger part is passive/receptive and the smaller part is active/generative.

The inference, therefore, is that the first part of the diagram in some way lays the
foundation for the energy of the subsequent movement. This could mean that the
apparently innocuous wave c of B is actually where the real strength of the pattern
emerges. In financial markets, for example, this might be where sustained (and
sustainable) action takes place. Where the resulting advance is highly speculative
learnt behaviour, the subsequent wave C collapse can be dramatic.

Squaring price with time

This conclusion is borne out by another aspect of Mr. Gann's pattern that relates
the Golden Ratio to the geometry of the square. Mr. Gann’s name has become
closely associated with the concept of squaring price with time, whereby
movements in price along a vertical axis are matched with the evolution of time
along a horizontal axis. According to the conventional interpretation, when price
and time become equivalent along a geometric 45-degree line (i.e. when squaring
takes place), a reversal of some degree can be expected. The big problem,
however, is that there is no obvious way of making units of price comparable
with units of time. It is like trying to match apples with potatoes.

One solution that is used by analysts is to note where a price low and a price
high have occurred in the past, and calculate the associated relationship between
the movement in price and the passage of time — i.e. the speed of the price
movement. This relationship is then represented by a 45-degree line on a chart,
with the axes adjusted to suit. The heroic assumption is that subsequent price
inflexions will occur at points in the future that reflect the same speed as the
original price-time relationship.

In practice, the technique works only erratically, ifat all. The reason that analysts
persist with it is an interesting comment on the belief that financial markets (and
therefore collective behaviour) are organised by an unknown form of order, and
the belief that Mr. Gann had access to the necessary knowledge. Both beliefs are
undoubtedly correct, but the mistake has been to take Mr. Gann’s extant teachings
at face value. As I have already mentioned, these teachings may have helped to
hide — rather than reveal — what he knew. A great deal of research still needs to be
done on the subject, but we can now at least shed a little more light on it.

136

--- PAGE 153 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

In Chapter 10, it was shown that Mr. Gann's 1-2-3/A-B-C pattern of vibration
fitted precisely into a square of 35 units by 35 units. In Figure 10-1, the
horizontal scale represented the number of chapters in the book and the vertical
scale represented the number of pages per chapter. Mr. Gann’s pattern ended
when the number of chapters (35) equalled an equivalent potential number of
pages per chapter (35). Since, geometrically, the top right-hand corner of a
square coincides with a 45-degree line drawn from the lower left-hand corner
of that square, this is where the two axes square off. Hence, if the vertical axis
represents price and the horizontal axis represents time, then price squares with
time in the top right-hand corner of the square. After such a point, quite
obviously anew vibration will begin:

The Golden Ratio and hidden energies

As it stands, this definition of squaring does not provide much genuine
information. It is an outcome of the way that the diagram was conceived and
then constructed, and so is as much an artifice as an indication of a genuine
phenomenon. The specific problem for analysts is that none of the inflexion
points within the vibration actually occur on, or along, the 45-degree line.
However, there is a much more profound aspect to the diagram, which not only
automatically deals with this problem, but also raises questions about the forces
at work in collective human behaviour.

In Chapter 5 it was found that, if St Matthew's “sign of the prophet” was taken
to belong to “Jonas” rather than “Jonah”, then it was possible to construct an
extraordinary diagram that seemed to relate the measurable processes of life to
some form of hidden energy represented by the Golden Ratio. Specifically, a
process ended when the measured active and passive elements, each multiplied
by 0.618, formed a square. This was shown in Figure 5-7.

Figure 13-7 shows Mr. Gann’s original diagram adjusted so that the origin of
both axes is zero.‘ This implicitly allows that the number of pages can start from
zero. Next, the vertical heights of the vibrations in each of the two halves of the
diagram (i.e. the heights of the two primary oscillations) are measured. Once
this is done, it can be shown that the pattern of vibration finishes when the
measured height of the /argest of the two vibrations squares with the energies of
both vibrations as represented by the Golden Ratio, 0.618:1. This outcome is a
directly comparable to that shown in Figure 5-7 of Chapter 5. First, the
maximum height of the vibration in the first half of the diagram is 30 units.
When this is multiplied by 0.618, the equivalent horizontal value is 18.54 units.
Second, the maximum height of the vibration in the second half of the diagram
is 19 units. When this is multiplied by 0.618, the equivalent value on the
horizontal axis is 11.74 units.

"This was Mr. Gann’s own condlusion.
This places it on an equal footing with Figure 5-7.

137

--- PAGE 154 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapternumber
0 2 4 6 & 10 12 14 16 28 20 22 28 26 28 30 32 34 36

3
18.54 units ———

as 35

30

c
11.74 units, ls

Number of pages

30units ——————,

19 units

c

° °

0 2 2 6 8 102 a6 we 20M M26 28 3 32 -¥4 36
ee eozeunts

FIGURE 13-7: THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE IN MR. GANN’S DIAGRAM

Harmonising price with hidden energies

ical axis

The result is that the highest point of the diagram measured on the vei
(30 units) is almost exactly equal to the sum of the two Golden Ratio defined
widths on the horizontal axis (18.54 + 11.74 = 30.28 units). This outcome is
directly comparable with that shown in Figure 5-7. There is obviously a small
difference between the vertical and horizontal dimensions, amounting to 0.28
units; but the fact remains that the active phases of the vibration terminate on a
30 x 30 square. This means that the peak of wave B coincides with the end of a
45-degree line: drawn from the top left-hand corner of the 30 x 30 square to the
bottom right-hand corner. Once wave B has finished, the final wave C takes over.

In terms of the argument in Chapter 3, this means that the advance from 0 to
the top of wave 3 is the passive element in the process and that the advance from
the bottom of wave A to the top of wave B is the active element. Consequently,
the first advance is likely to incorporate just quantitative changes, while the
second advance is likely to embody quantitative changes and qualitative changes.
More generally, this means that the first rectangle represents the total response

In Figure 5-7 there is also a small difference between the vertical and horizontal distances.

"Given the variability, the actual line would be 45° 12’

138

--- PAGE 155 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

to the initial information shock of wave 1, and that the second rectangle reflects
the resulting structural system changes. Again, this confirms that wave B takes
place under the influence of deep structure changes.

If Figure 13-7 is translated into a financial market vibration, such that the vertical
axis represents price and the horizontal axis represents time, the expansionary
processes of the vibration will terminate when price squares with time. This may
be why Mr. Gann makes Robert Gordon say in Tiennel: “In making my predictions
I use geometry and mathematics... based on immutable laws”.» Moreover, this
conclusion holds true whatever units are measured on the horizontal axis.

Mr. Gann presented his pattern of vibration in the context of a square that is
35 units high and 35 units wide. But the use of a square to contain the vibration
is not essential to the phenomenon of squaring of price with time. The Golden
Ratio transforms the explicit energy being expressed on the vertical axis into an
implicit energy on the horizontal axis, and thereby resolves the issue of making
price compatible with time. The direct inference is that time itself has an
objective element that is normally hidden from us. For simplicity, | am going
to call this element objective Time.

The Jonas pattern

This obviously raises the question about the validity of such an approach in the
context of St. Matthew's “sign of the prophet Jonas” and Mr. Gurdjieff’s
enneagram. Figure 13-8 shows St. Matthew's pattern of vibration. The first point
to note is that, by construction, the whole pattern is contained within a square.
As with Mr. Gann's pattern, this has the effect of ensuring that the whole pattern
is completed in the context of a square.

The second point is that, because of this, the base of the diagram is not going
to be zero, as with Mr. Gann’s, but is going to be the actual start of the vibration
at the second word grouping. The total increase in gematrian values from this
point to the fifth word grouping is 2365. This number is almost exactly the
product of the numbers 38.2 and 61.8. Since nothing within St. Matthew's text
appears accidental, this could imply a direct reference to the Golden Ratio.» We
can then construct a Golden Rectangle from this, with a height of 2365 and a
width of 1461.6.

Next, we can construct a Golden Rectangle from the increase in gematrian values
from the sixth word grouping to the ninth. This yields a rectangle with a height
of 1554 and width of 960.4. If the two Golden Rectangles are placed
contiguously, with a common base line, the horizontal width is 2421 units

"Gann, Tinnel.
"38.2 x 61.8 = 2361,

139

--- PAGE 156 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

against a maximum height of 2365 units. This is not quite a square, so a falling
45 degree line does not correspond precisely to the inflexion point at the end of
wave B. But it nearly does. This suggests that there might be a zone, rather than
a precise point, where an inversion takes place.

Word grouping
1458 942 1346 1720 2124 2528 7932 3336 3740 A146 45.48
350 +--+ = + 4350
|
4000 ] 3 ‘4000
1461.6 units
wolf + jas
|
ss00 | | s300
|
23504 } 2950 |
3 3
§ 2600 | 2000 §
é
& 250] nso &
B sco | I soo ®
21900
] \
1550 4 | 1380
| |
A |
1200 + c 1200

so 4

soo +

+ soo

14 $8 942 1316 1720 2224 25.28 2932 3336 37-40 41.44 45-48
‘Word group!

FIGURE 13-8; THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE IN ST. MATTHEW'S DIAGRAM

The Gurdjieff pattern

A similar conclusion applies to Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern of vibration. This is
shown in Figure 13-9 where, again, the Golden Ratio transformation is applied
to the maximum height of the first half of the vibration, and to the extent of
the a-b-c rally in the second part. When the bottom edges of both Golden
Rectangles are aligned in the chart, the total horizontal width is 294.3 units and
the maximum vertical height is 283.6 units. Again, these dimensions do not
quite replicate those of a square. But the point is that a square can come into
existence close to the point of inflexion. The actual square is formed when the
rally from A to B has become large enough to ensure that the sum of the Golden
Ratio transformations on the horizontal axis equals the height of the initial three-
wave impulse from 0 to 3.

There are three important points that emerge from a consideration of Mr. Gurdjieff’s
diagram. First, he may have emphasised the depth of the wave b downswing in order

140

--- PAGE 157 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

to focus on the fact that wave B can only finish when three sub-waves have evolved.
In other words, the wave a advance cannot complete the process.

The second point follows from this. Once wave c of wave B has started, it is
necessary continuously to calculate the height of the evolving wave B. This is
because the larger Golden Rectangle has already been determined by the height
of the initial three-wave advance, but the second, smaller, Golden Rectangle will
grow as the wave B upswing progresses. When this second rectangle is large
enough for its lower right-hand corner to intersect a 45-degree line drawn
downwards from the top left-hand corner of the first rectangle, then the upswing
will be reaching a terminal juncture.

Chapter grouping
14 $4 9.42 19-6 17-20 21-24 25-28 29.22 33-36 37-40 41-44 65-48

a i f
2s 3

tT 175.3units —? |
200 | pe |

8 i}

ws | ©
sso |
- 1190units —

Change innumber of pages (%)
283 6 units

1926 units

100 +0 ——— i
t 294.3units

FIGURE 13-9: THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE IN MR. GURDJIEFF'S DIAGRAM

The third point, however, is probably the most significant — at least in theoretical
terms. In Mr. Gann’s diagram, calendar (or cycle) time and objective Time are
visually correlated because they are both contained by a square. In Mr.
Gurdjieff’s diagram, however, the only way that cycle time and objective Time
can be correlated is if the horizontal axis that tracks cycle time is adjusted. This
has been done in Figure 13-10.

Specifically, the horizontal axis has been widened — and the squareness of the
diagram gives way to a rectangle — so that the cycle pattern begins in the bottom
left-hand corner of the first square and the last major peak occurs above the

141

--- PAGE 158 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

bottom right-hand corner. It does not really matter, however, where the
contiguous Golden Rectangles are placed. Mr. Gurdjieff’s diagram thus overtly
separates the phenomenon of time as measured by the Earth's relation to the sun
(or moon) and the phenomenon of Time as represented by the Golden Ratio.
This separation draws attention directly to the importance of the latter.

Chaptergrouping
14 $8 9A2 1346 17-20 22-24 2528 2932 33-36 3740 4144 45-48

3
fo 1783unts ——

200 | 200
vs B 17s
a c
150 150
119. Ounits
ws 7 ns

283.6 uniits

Change innumber of pages (%)

192.6 uniits ee
x3
Change in number of pages (%)

as
so so
asf | c 1
100 ? } 100

2943.units

FIGURE 13-10; THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE WITH ADJUSTED CALENDAR TIME

SQUARING ACTIVITY WITH TIME

The obvious question, of course, is: does this idea of squaring explicit output
with implicit input work in practice? In Chapter 11, I showed the performance
of the ISM index of producer confidence between January 1991 and October
2001. The chart is reproduced in Figure 13-11. The initial three-wave recovery
took the index from a low of 39.2 to a high of 59.4. This is a difference of 20.2
units. The recovery from the low of wave A to the high of wave B took the index
from 45.5 to 58.1. This is a difference of 12.6 units. If the vertical heights are
multiplied by 0.618, the results are 12.48 and 7.79 respectively. Added together,
the result is 20.27, which is only marginally larger than the initial three-wave
advance. It is not always this easy; but, in this case anyway, Mr. Gann’s formula
seems to have worked.

142

--- PAGE 159 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

Percent of cycle time elapsed
036 9 12 16 19 22 25 28 11 44 37 40 43 47 $0 83 50 50 62 65.68.71 74 78 81M 87 90 03 08 99

Jan 981082001
(Monthly, seasonally adusted)
lata source net Sin Marageroer

202units

2027unis ———t

Jong) dan?” Jan} dant Jon 95 don 96 Jang?” Jang” Jang” Jano Junot

FIGURE 13-11; THE GOLDEN RATIO, THE 45-DEGREE LINE, AND THE ISM INDEX

Asin Figures 13-7 to 13-9, the Golden Rectangles have been placed on the chart
in a way that identifies the relationship between the first (i.e. largest) rectangle
and the initial three-wave upswing. The second, smaller, Golden Rectangle will
then expand as the wave B upswing evolves. When the resulting rectangle is
large enough for its lower right-hand corner to intersect a 45-degree line drawn
downwards from the top left-hand corner of the first rectangle, then the ISM
upswing will be reaching a terminal juncture.

To repeat, however, the placement of the two Golden Rectangles on the chart
in this way does not assume any specific relationship between calendar — or cycle
— time and objective Time. The two phenomena can only be made to match
visually if the cycle’s horizontal axis is shortened (in this case, lengthened in
other cases) to make sure that the start of the first upswing and end of the second
upswing coincide with the boundaries of the two rectangles. For completion,
this is done in Figure 13-12.

143

--- PAGE 160 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Percentof cycle time elapsed
© 8 16 23 31 39 47 S4 62 70 78 a 93

6s

ISM Purchasing Managers Index
(Monthly)

60

5s

so

Indextevel

4s

Fo 202 units

40

20.27 units —. f

Sa an nn I,
0 8 16 23 31 39 47 54 62 70 78 85 93
Percentof cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 13-12: THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE WITH ADJUSTED CALENDAR TIME

CONCLUSION

The intersection of a 45-degree line with opposite corners of two contiguous
Golden Rectangles may have been part of the phenomenon of vibration that
Mr. Gann was trying to communicate through the page structure of Timnel.
But it is quite obvious that this version of squaring price with time bears very
little relation to the formula that contemporary analysts attribute to Mr. Gann.

Fora start, the 45-degree line slopes downwards from left to right. Second, there
is no direct contact between the 45-degree line and the final turning point in
absolute prices. What we are dealing with, instead, is something much more
profound. The diagram appears to confirm the conclusion of Chapter 5 that
the phenomenon that we call time is not just a method of dividing a continuous
process into distinct and equal units; it is an energy in its own right that
participates in that process. In other words, Time has an objective dimension:
it is an energetic input that can be measured in relation to the associated output.

More subtly (and as argued in Chapter 3), this energetic input can be classified
according to the relative sizes of the two rectangles: the larger one is receptive

144

--- PAGE 161 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

(or passive) and the smaller one is generative (or active). This means that the
initial 1-2-3 upswing is essentially passive, while wave B (with its a-b-c
oscillation) is active. One implication is that the initial upswing establishes the
environment and sets the scene, while wave B is the one that creates the deep-
structure changes.

In terms of economic activity and financial markets, this adds substance to the
arguments in Chapter 8 concerning the nature of learning in the context of
economic activity and financial market speculation: the whole of the initial
upswing is the information shock; the wave A fall represents the absorption of
the information; and wave B is where the learning is actively applied.
Consequently, wave B is the location of persistent trends and permanent
structural change.

This chapter has explored the shape of a universal pattern of change that was
hidden in St. Matthew's Gospel, in Mr. Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’ Tales, and in Mr.
Gann’s Tunnel Thru The Air. If the findings are correct, they have revolutionary
implications for our understanding not just of collective human behaviour, but
also of the evolutionary processes embedded in the worlds of the infinitesimally
small and of the infinitely large. The processes of change may be much more
organised than we thought.

145

--- PAGE 162 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 163 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 14

INNER OCTAVE CYCLES

“[I]t is necessary to have a clear idea of another property of vibrations, namely
the so-called ‘inner vibrations.”

P. D. Ouspensky, quoting G. I. Gurdjieff

THE CREATIVE SHOCK

‘The patterns that were explored in the previous chapter (Figures 13-1, 13-2 and
13-3) show a significant momentum low halfway through the complete cycle.
This leaves the impression that the overall vibration consists of two sub-cycles —
namely, 0-3-A and A-B-C.

Certainly, the second half of each diagram reproduces the first half, although in
a compressed form: the a-b-c upwave mirrors the initial 1-2-3 upswing; and the
final wave C fall recapitulates the wave A collapse. In practical terms, it can
therefore often be appropriate to treat the vibration as a pair of cycles.
Nevertheless, Mr. Gurdjieff was quite clear that any complete process should
contain three distinct phases, or inner octaves (see Chapter 8). So, where are
these inner octaves in Mr. Gann’ pattern?

Figure 14-1 shows two data series: the upper one is Mr. Gann’s pattern of
vibration derived from the number of pages per chapter from Tunnel; the lower
one is Mr. Gann’s pattern converted to momentum, or changes in the number
of pages between one chapter and the next. It is immediately clear that the
vibrations afier waves 1 and 2 consist of three sub-cycles, all of equal length.

--- PAGE 164 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

30
Number of pages (Lh. scale)

sis change innumber of pages(r.h.scale)

Number of pages

10

(Change innumber of pages

2B tstoycie t 2ndeycle t 3rd cycle
P3087 9 mas as a7 a9 21 23 25 27 2931 33 35

Chapternumber

FIGURE 14-1; MR, GANN'S PATTERN CONVERTED TO MOMENTUM

These cycles are separated from one another and presented in Figure 14-2. All
three have a basic signature: they start and end on a low, and are interrupted by
a sharp contraction.' When they are averaged together (see Figure 14-2D), the
unmistakable pattern is that of an enneagram-type pulse. The implication is
that the oscillations are not random, and that the overall pattern references both
the Law of Three and the Law of Seven.

However, this still leaves the problem of interpreting the first two waves of Mr.
Gann’s pattern. A possible clue can be found in the analysis of inner octaves in
Chapter 6. A striking of the note Do triggers an ascending octave, with inner
octaves being initiated sequentially by the notes Re, Me and So (Table 6-4).
What is important here is that the initial Do occurs prior to, and independently
of, what subsequently evolves as the system; and that that emergent system starts
at Re. In other words, the initial Do is a creative shock.

If this logic is transferred on to Mr. Gann’s momentum pattern, the first upswing
can be viewed as the creative shock that corresponds to the initiating Do, and
the subsequent downswing represents the removal of the shock, But the shock
nevertheless creates three sub-cycles, which correspond to the three inner octaves.

‘Teydles are naturally punctuated by sharp contractions, they are i-represented by sine waves

148

--- PAGE 165 of 225 ---

[OCR] Position of page change within cycle

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

2s + . a rs

First cycle

10

Change in page numbers

20

15
|

10

INNER OCTAVE CYCLES

10203 @ S 6 7 & 8 w
Positionot page change within ye
FIGURE 14-24: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM
Position of page change within cyde
10203 8 8 6 7 & 9
Pr ieee Seen ee Co sf. Be
Second cycle
20

1s

10

Change in page numbers

a0 4

20

$$$

1 92 3 4 $ 6 7
Position of page change within cyde

FIGURE 14-2B: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM

25

20

18

10

Change in page numbers

10

15

20

as

2s

20

as

10

‘Change in page numbers

as

20

———.——++

°

10

CHAPTER 14

149

--- PAGE 166 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Position of page change within cycle

> 203 4 8 6 7 8
2s
Third cycle
20
1s
10

Change in page numbers

10

20

as .
1 92 3 4 S$ 6 2?

FIGURE 14-2C: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM

Position of page change within cycle

12 2 4 5 6 2
.

Average cycle
s|

| 3
‘
4
‘
¢
22
2
Fo
; 2
2
4
‘
A

*
0

> 2 3 4 8 6 7

Position of page change within cycle

FIGURE 14-2D: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM

150

s
Position of page change within cycle

10

10

10

a

20

10

40

20

as

10

Change in page numbers

Change in page numbers.

--- PAGE 167 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

This pattern is shown in Figure 14-1. The shock embodied in the first rising
wave (wave 1) in the upper part of the diagram will have an initial, once-off
impact. But it will then either merge into the structure of the affected system
or will simply fade away (wave 2). In the lower series in Figure 14-1, therefore,
the initiating shock emerges from nothing (zero in the chart), has an impact
and then fades away. But the system then vibrates.

This still leaves open the question of the source of the shock: can it be created
by the system itself or must it arise externally?) The question will be addressed
in the next chapter. For the moment, it is sufficient to acknowledge that,
whatever the source of the shock, the system has to respond to it. And it is this
response that is reflected in the subsequent oscillations.

THE OSCILLATIONS

Each of the three sub-cycles that follow the shock exhibits a different pattern.
The first cycle is balanced around a peak that is only slightly off-centre, and —
most importantly — is very similar to the momentum pattern that was deduced
from St. Matthew's text (see Figure 12-1). This is a strong indication of the
importance of this particular pattern. Its emergence invariably signals the
beginning of an adjustment. Its first three rising waves correspond to wave 3 of
Mr. Gann’s higher-level pattern, and its subsequent three falling waves
correspond to wave A of the higher-level pattern. The rising phase takes the
system as far as it can go without a change in the system and, consequently, the
falling phase is an energy gap associated with a system failure of some sort. In
this sense, the lower-level A-B-C pattern represents a genuine reversal of the
preceding 1-2-3 advance.

The second cycle has two momentum peaks, rather than three. In particular,
the initial recovery is dynamic and is followed by a sharp contraction. Then
there is a prolonged advance to the final peak. The overall effect is to produce a
simple left-biased pattern that reprises the more complex higher-level pattern.

Finally, the fluctuations in the third cycle match those in the first, except that
wave A appears dramatic and the final wave B upswing is damped. Wave A often
provides a shock that is so large that it effectively terminates the creative processes
within the whole triad of cycles. Waves B and C then become aftershocks.

As Figure 14-2D then shows, the average of these three inner cycles looks very
similar to a schematised version of the enneagram/price pulse discussed in

Tris an interesting fact that the idea of change is represented by the Greek letter delta — Le. 8. The shape of the
letter mirrors a shock that is followed by an advance that then fades. It is therefore also relevant that the capitalised
version of '8 is‘A’ with its implicit reference to the Law of Three.

\This is the difference between the endogenous and exogenous shocks of economic theory.

151

--- PAGE 168 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapter 9. Each cycle in a group of three will diverge from the average, and will
play a different role in relation to the higher-level cycle of which it is a part. But
the same basic dynamics are functioning all the time. These dynamics involve
an initial /earning pattern, an intra-cycle energy gap, a recovery and an end-cycle
contraction. This is the archetypal pattern behind all cycles.

Outer and inner octaves

Ivis possible to explain the differences between each of the lower-level cycles in
terms of the progress through an ascending octave, as described in Chapter 6.
This progress is retarded at the intervals Me-Fa and Ti-Do so that the system
fluctuates. As shown in Table 6-4 of Chapter 6, these particular intervals, or
energy gaps, occur not just in the outer octave, but also in each of the three
inner octaves. It is the interaction of the two levels that creates the differences
between each of Mr. Gann’s three sub-cycles. Table 14-1 reproduces Table 6-4,
with the addition of extra columns showing the difference in each note’s
vibration when compared with the previous, ‘lower, note. The points of

slowdown are highlighted.

|Whole phenomenon Triple octave
Tonic Sol-fa |Vibration _|Difference | Tonic Sol-fa [Vibration Difference
Do" 1256 32 Do* 256 16
Tie [240 [26.7
Ti 224 53.3
Lae 213.333, 21.3
So 192 21.3
La 170.666 42.7 Fae 170.666 0.7
Me 160. 6
Re 144 16
So N28 427 Do® 128 8
Tie 120 3.3
La? 106.666 10.7
Sot 96 0.7
Fa 185.333 21.3 Fa? 185.333 5.3.
Me? 80. g
Re* 72 8
Me 164 164 Do? 164 4
Ti? 160 6.7
La’ 53.333 5.3
So a8 53
Fat 142.666 2.7
Me 40 4
Re 36 a
Re 32 32 Do’ 132
Do 0

TABLE 14-1; THE HIGHER-LEVEL OCTAVE AND THE THREE INNER OCTAVES

152

--- PAGE 169 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

In the first of Mr. Gann’s momentum cycles, there are no points of retardation
in the outer octave, which leaves the energy gaps at Me'-Fa' and Ti!-Do! to
create the sharp falls in wave A and wave C respectively. In the second
momentum cycle, the outer octave has a reversal point at Fa (see Chapter 8)
and a gap at Me-Fa. These coincide with an inner octave gap at Me’-Fa’. This
is why there is such a sharp fall so early within the cycle, and why a clear wave
3 is unable to develop. There is then the inner octave gap at 7i?-Do’ which draws
the second cycle to a close.

In the third momentum cycle, there is a point of reversal at La in the outer
octave (see Chapter 8) and an energy gap at Me’-Fa’ in the inner octave. These
account for the sharpness of the cycle’s wave A fall. But the subsequent recovery
is limited by the outer octave’s energy gap at Ti-Do. Specifically, the interval
La’-T# in the inner octave — which should be strong — is instead vulnerable to
the Ti-Do'"' deceleration in the outer octave. This weakness is then compounded
by the 77-Do’ interval in the inner octave. And then the cycle ends.

The triad of sub-cycles in practice

‘These ideas may appear to besomewharabsenuse: So, before proceeding Rirdien
it needs to be demonstrated that the ideas are not just theoretical niceties; they
extend into practical realities. Figure 14-3 shows the-annualised owo-quarter
percentage change in UK industrial production since the secular cycle low of
1980. Overlaid on the chart is the profile of Mr. Gann’s pattern of vibration,
expressed in terms of momentum. Inevitably there are divergences; but it is the
similarities that are compelling. The 3-up/3-down pattern of the first cycle is
very clear, as is the early peak and progressive advance of the second cycle. What
really stands out, however, is the correlation between predictive theory and actual
experience in the third cycle. The correspondences prior to, during and after
the deep intra-cycle contraction are truly remarkable.

Mr Gann's pattern of vibration therefore presents an accurate picture of the
forces operating on the momentum of UK industrial production: it is able to
anticipate significant turning points, identify the direction of momentum and
distinguish between different stages of change.’ It means — among many other
things — that the recessions of 1990-91 and 2001-02, and the collapse of 2008-
09, were non-random and intrinsically forecastable. It also means that UK
industrial production vibrates to the rhythm of a 10-year cycle, and three beats

TThave been using this very specific three-phase behavioural pattern in economic activity since the late 1990s (see,
for example, Tony Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets 4th Fd.) (Kogan Page, London, 2003)). The pattern was
fully incorporated into my forecasting processes at Rhombus Research Led (2001-07), and is now central to my
work at Helmsman Economics Ltd (2007 to date). What I did not know until 2011 was that the pattern was
inerinsic to William Gann’s methodologies. The point is that these truths could be deduced from the available daca
once it was accepted that non-random oscillating processes were at work.

183

--- PAGE 170 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

of the cycle chunk up to form an overarching 30-year cycle. This has dramatic
implications for the understanding of economic history and for the conduct of
future economic policy.

These findings do not just apply to economic activity. Figure 14-4 shows the
12-month percentage change, between 1980 and 2002, in an index of US 10-
year Treasury Note (or Bond) prices. As with the case of UK output, the
3-up/3-down pattern of the first cycle is very noticeable, as is the rightward bias
of the second cycle, and the relatively mild contraction at the end of the third
cycle. Most importantly, the intra-cycle retrenchments in 1983-84, 1990 and
1999 are very clear and coincide with the expected patterns.

One useful inference from the difference between the depth of the intra-cycle
contraction in the third cycle and the subsequent end-of-cycle weakness is that
the former marks the end of the dynamic processes of the cycle and the latter
partly reflects the process of recovery. Again, the overriding point is that the
evolution of the price vibration is non-random and basically forecastable. In the
case of T-Notes, there appears to be a 7.3-year cycle, three beats of which form
an overarching 22-year cycle. This also has important implications for the
conduct of economic policy.

Percentot cycle time elapsed
26 9 12 45 10 21 24 28 E34 47 40 42 46 50 53 SE S062 6S GD 72-75 78 AL EL AT 91 94 97 100
UK Industrial Production

(Quarteriy)
Data source: ONS

2atrchange (pa)

cree in eroducvon
—Wrehetypaipater of vbr ation 228

tsa) 1s3a3ts0603 s9e9c3 | sszaa i99Sq2 199803 Zoo1a z008aa 200703701003 201303,
Currenteycle

FIGURE 14-3: MR. GANN’S PATTERN OF ‘INNER’ VIBRATIONS; UK OUTPUT

154

--- PAGE 171 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

Mat Mac? Mar MarS6 Math Mur Mar] Maré M96 Murs Muro Maro? Maco

f i
((100-yield; monthly, daily averages) :
Data source FRB

temonth change (8)

omnes nore inden ,

hetypaoater of viraton

t a a Se oaeee

Macho Maraz |” Maré” Mit | Mares Mar90. (Marg? Murad M96 | Marsa Muro Muro? | Manos

FIGURE 14-4: MR, GANN’S PATTERN OF ‘INNER’ VIBRATIONS; US 10-YEAR T-NOTES

The role of the sub-cycles

The combination of theory and reality shown in Figures 14-3 and 14-4 helps to
confirm the idea that each of the sub-cycles plays a different role in the context
of the higher-level process to which they contribute. The first eycle — which, to
repeat, mirrors St. Matthew's pattern — is likely concerned with separation from
the preceding higher-level cycle. Herice che 1980-91 cycle was very much involved
with the shift away from a highly inflationary, heavily unionised, economy. It was
therefore divisive and conflict-orientated, and ended in a deep recession.

The second cycle appears focused on the implementation of change. The 1991-
2001 cycle oversaw the information revolution and the globalisation of markets.
Tt was a low-inflation cycle that generated a sense of collective optimism. The
third cycle then encompasses the bedding down or incorporation of new processes
and structures. It is a cycle that has to deal with the fading of the processes of
the preceding phase of innovation. It reflects structural limits on any further
change. And it eventually involves an outright response to excesses. The cycle
that started in 2001 has accordingly been characterised by stuttering economic
activity, volatile crowd psychology and social unrest.

The three phases of separation, change and incorporation reflect the irreversible
processes of evolution.’ In terms of Figure 14-1, the information shock that triggers

The terms eparation, change and incorporation are different to the terms transition, innovation and disruption that
I used in Forecasting Financial Markets. The meanings ate the same, but the focus is different.

--- PAGE 172 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

these three phases must occur prior to the first cycle in the series. If this idea is
translated onto Figure 14-3, it implies that the relevant shock to the UK economy
had to occur in the last stages of the higher-level cycle that ended in 1980. If we
continue to assume the operation of a non-random process, then it is possible to
hypothesise that the relevant information shock at the end of the preceding cycle
was generated either by economic developments (such as surging inflation and/or
economic recession) or by external social and political events (such as war).

Ic isa fact that the 1970-80 period, which preceded the period shown in Figure
14-3, was characterised by accelerating inflation and weak economic growth,
and by the global impact of the Vietnam War. Such dislocations are always likely
to emerge at the end of large cycles. They inevitably embody the sort of shocks
that subsequently initiate a new evolutionary process.

The idea of a triadic hierarchy of cycles — with three cycles at one level combining
to form a cycle at a higher level — can also be deduced from the structure of Mr.
Gurdjieff’s book, Beelzebubs Tales. As already mentioned, the first part of that
book — the first sub-book within the book — consists of 28 chapters. The number
28 has its own heritage in relation to cycles. It is the product of 4 and 7, and is
the sum of the numbers between I and 7. In the context of cycles and natural
vibrations, the number 7 is always likely to be a reference to the Law of Seven. As
a corollary, therefore, so is the number 28. This suggests that some of the same
techniques that were applied to the whole of Beelzebub’ Tales can be applied to
the first 28 chapters. The details are shown in Appendix 6.

CONCLUSION

It hardly needs to be emphasised that all these findings are extraordinary. They
imply that the swings in collective optimism and pessimism that are associated
with oscillations in economic activity are going to proceed along broadly-
defined, but nevertheless very specific, pathways. They also imply that, once a
socio-economic vibration has been set in motion, policy-makers can only damp
down, or add to, the oscillations; they cannot reverse them. This is consistent
with the growing body of academic evidence that suggests that government
activity is not an independent variable in relation to the economic system, It
seems that the political conflicts and economic upheavals that are periodically
experienced in our democracies are actually part of a broad process over which
we have little or no control.

The presence of a common signature pattern in the different presentations made
by Mr. Gann, Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew is truly remarkable given the vast
differences in the numbers of pages and words that are involved — 1238 pages for
Beeleebub’ Tales, 418 pages for Tunnel and only 68 words in St. Matthew's Gospel.

--- PAGE 173 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

However, the achievement is more easily understood when it is recognised that
the different authors were working with the same natural construct. That is, they
were working with what Mr. Gurdjieff called the Law of Three and the Law of
Seven (see Chapters 3 and 7), and with what Mr. Gann called the daw of vibration,
derived from St. Matthews text (see Chapters 10 and 12).

The critical differences between Mr. Gann’s pattern, and those of Mr. Gurdjieff
and St. Matthew, are that, on the one hand, it was concealed in an appallingly
trivial book and, on the other hand, it is very complex. It is this contrast that
invites attention. It suggests that the book was constructed in order primarily to
convey the pattern. Furthermore, since the pattern itself was given no attendant
explanation, then it is highly likely that the pattern itself must hold additional
information. This is exactly what this chapter has shown. Mr. Gann’s pattern is
a carrier wave: it holds three inner octave cycles that are generated by a preceding
shock (Figure 14-1). Moreover, the average of these three cycles translates back
into a basic pattern that is very similar to St. Matthew's (Figure 14-2).

There may be much more to Mr. Gann’s configuration than has currently been
identified. However, we can now draw three important conclusions. First, all
natural cyclical processes can be represented by a left-biased enneagram-type
pattern, which represents the average outcome. Second, a higher-level cycle consists
of a sequence of three lower-level cycles, each of which has a slightly different
profile. Third, cycles at all levels are likely to contain an intra-cyele contraction, as
well as being separated from one another by inter-cycle contractions.

The next chaper will look more closely at how some of these ideas might work
in practice.

187

--- PAGE 174 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 175 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 15

THE LAW OF VIBRATION
IN PRACTICE

“Gpele theory, or harmonic analysis, is the only thing that we can rely upon to
ascertain the future.”

W.D. Gann

A SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS

The preceding chapters have explored a specific pattern that was hidden in the
structure of three very different texts: St. Matthew's Gospel; George I. Gurdjieff’s
All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man, or
Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson; and William D. Gann’s The Tunnel Thru The
Air. The reasons why the pattern was included in St. Matthew's text cannot now
be known. However, both Mr. Gurdjieff and Mr. Gann saw the pattern as being,
in part, a symbol of perpetual motion within the living universe. But they also
saw it as being a direct reflection of a real phenomenon. Mr. Gurdjieff called it
the Law of Seven; Mr. Gann called it the law of vibration.

The two most important given aspects of this law are that the vibrations exist
throughout the whole universe, without exception, and that the vibrations are
discontinuous. Pyotr Ouspensky, quoting Mr. Gurdjieff, argued that “vibrations
proceed in all kinds, aspects, and densities of matter... from the finest to the
coarsest; they issue from various sources and proceed in various directions, crossing
one another, colliding, strengthening, weakening, arresting one another...

"Ouspensky, In Search,

--- PAGE 176 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

At the same time, these vibrations accelerate and decelerate. To quote Mr.
Ouspensky again:

“The force of the impulse acts without changing its nature and vibrations
develop in a regular way only for a certain time which is determined by
the nature of the impulse, the medium, the conditions, and so forth. But
ata certain moment, a kind of change takes place in it and the vibrations,
so to speak, cease to obey it and for a short time they slow down and to
a certain extent change their nature or direction.”

‘This phenomenon was discussed in detail in Chapters 7, 8 and 9, and the
different presentations from the three different authors were explored in Chapters
10, 11 and 12. It was found that the authors’ patterns of vibration were basically
identical to one another, and that the pattern could be found in collective human
behaviour in economic activity and in financial markets. It is likely that the
pattern can be found in many other arenas. In Chapter 8 it was argued that the
pattern appeared to incorporate the distinctive archetypal pattern of the process
of learning, In Chapter 14 it was further argued that the initial shock has its own
pattern of vibration, that it is followed by an energy gap, and that the subsequent
movement constitutes the application of learning. It is as if the information shock
has to gain traction within a system before it can have an effect.

Mr. Gann appears to have taken this last argument a step further. The
information shock can be seen either as a part of a whole, higher-level, pattern,
or it can be seen as initiating three sub-cycles. In the first case, the shock is wave
1 of a 1-2-3 rising pattern. The shock is then absorbed in wave 2 and
implemented in wave 3. In the second case, the shock occurs outside of the
phenomenon being tracked, and therefore prior to three subsequent cycles. The
first cycle is a volatile response to a prior shock; the second cycle incorporates a
more sustained system response to the shock; and the third cycle reflects the
limits to further change and exhibits fading energy.

US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

It is not the purpose of this book to show in detail how the pattern of vibration
can be used. This is for each individual to research. Nevertheless, some of the
power of the pattern — and its potential to help with our understanding of the
world — can be indicated by showing its presence in collective human behaviour
in the context of economic activity. For the purposes of this exercise, I shall
focus on US industrial production.

Thid.

160

--- PAGE 177 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

The point of doing so is that the US — and therefore the West — is facing severe
economic problems. These problems are not just temporary deviations from an
ever-improving trend because the 2008 financial panic was an energy gap in the
economic systems of most Western democracies. This shock has started a long
process of deep structural change that will extend beyond the sphere of economic
activity. The forces now at work will eventually alter the nature of social cohesion

and collective attitudes to the role of government in a democracy.

Data is somewhat limited, but annual production data from 1790 is available
from the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and monthly data
from 1919 is available from the Federal Reserve Board (FRB).' The former has
the advantage of being a consistent series, but it has the disadvantage of not
being constructed contemporaneously with the evolving US economy. It is likely
to contain measurement errors. Nevertheless, it is likely that it shows the general
direction of quantitative trends, even though it may not always accurately reflect
the fluctuations around those trends. The FRB’s data, on the other hand, are
produced with a high degree of rigour.

Figure 15-1 shows 1-year rates of change in US industrial production from 1790
to 2011.

a

US industrial Production
cata sour ROEM ond FRO

Lyeorm change

FIGURE 15-1: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

‘Volume data for US industrial production from 1790 to 1915 has been constructed by Joseph H. Davis (see, ‘An
Annual Index of US Production, 1790-1915', Quarterly Journal of Economics (November 2004)). Volume data for
manufacturing production from 1863 to 1930 is available on the NBER's website. For the purposes of this exercise, the
‘ovo data series have been merged and then concatenated with end-year data calculated by the Federal Reserve Board.

161

--- PAGE 178 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

One of the characteristics of the US industrial production chart is the increase
in the volatility of momentum between 1893 and 1945 (particularly on the
downside). This is prima facie evidence of a system responding to one or more
shocks. In fact, the first half of the 20th century incorporated some of the most
destructive shocks in the 20th century. Moreover, the events followed each other
sequentially, building shock upon shock. The financial crisis involving the
Knickerbocker Trust collapse (1907-08) was followed progressively by the First
World War (1914-18), a massive speculative boom and equity crash (1921-29),
a prolonged depression (1930-39), and then the Second World War (1939-45).
Not surprisingly, the whole period generated profound shifts in social attitudes,
political opinions and economic policy.

Non-random fluctuations

The question, however, is: are the fluctuations random? A cursory examination
would suggest that they are; but, once the idea of an archetypal pattern of
vibration is applied to the data, a profound form of order emerges. The analytical
process is somewhat lengthy. In the first place, it is iterative, involving a recurring
comparison of Mr. Gann’s three-phase iver octave pattern with the actual data.
In addition, there are two complications.

The first is that each three-phase vibration is preceded by a build-up of the
energy that will fuel the separation cycle. This transformational energy is
reflected in the emergence of problems that are basically insoluble under the
current paradigm and in a collective recognition that change is inevitable. This
period has to be isolated and removed from the pattern-matching process. The
second complication is that the evolution of the actual pattern through time
will inevitably involve some degree of variation in the timings of each of the
inner octave sub-cycles. This means that the sub-cycles have to be standardised
graphically against each other. This standardisation is achieved by
mathematically stretching the horizontal length of the shorter cycles so that they
match the length of the longest cycle in any set.

Figures 15-2 to 15-5 accordingly show the patterns of change in US industrial
output over four separate periods: 1801 to 1832; 1834 to 1870; 1875 to 1908;
and 1911 to 1940. The time elapse of the four periods is, respectively, 31 years, 36
years, 33 years and 29 years; the average length of the four cycles is thus 32 years.

Each of the charts is overlaid with Mr. Gann’s three inner octave sub-cycles. This
splits the momentum patterns into three sections, reflecting the three-stage
evolutionary process of separation, change and incorporation. Not surprisingly,
there are differences between the actual patterns and those that would be
expected from Mr. Gann’s cycles. A great deal of allowance has to be made for
potential errors in the original annual statistics. And even if the data is more or

--- PAGE 179 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

less correct, end-year data is simply not sensitive enough to pick up the precise
timings of Mr. Gann’s cycles. Nevertheless, the charts do show a good overall
correlation between the expected direction of change (according to Mr. Gann’s
pattern) and actual changes.

What also emerges is that the gap between the ending of one cycle and the start
of the next — that is, the period when transformational energy is being
accumulated — is variable both in length and (therefore) in impact. The 1801-
32 cycle was followed by a two-year interlude from 1832 to 1834; the 1834-1870
cycle was followed by a five-year interruption from 1870 to 1875; the 1875-1908
cycle was followed by a three-year gap from 1908 to 1911; and the 1911-1940
cycle was followed by a five-year interruption between 1940 and 1945. Each
such interruption — which invariably consists of some degree of recovery from
an end-cycle low followed by a fall — can be called an inter-cycle hiatus.

Percentol ere tine elapsed

os os owe Nn eH SR we RR RT
| |

as 3 (Endyear) bas
ta sources NBER 8 FPS. |

to ©

th sewnen
ee

FIGURE 15-2: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1801 TO 1832

The pattern of this interruption is much clearer in the Federal Reserves monthly data, See Appendix 7.

163

--- PAGE 180 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Percentof cyte time elapsed
os Dn eH Hw HR Pe
Poy eres Reino everett rat : *
JS Industrial Production |
as (Endyear) | s

Data sources NBER & FRE

3
4 |

syeae% change
Lyeaen change

. A : aocpecnacle laa
ofl ____sereaten t oem ocerperseon t i

0 5 bf sn we NM we we a A Rw

Percentot exe time elapsed

FIGURE 15-3; MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1834 TO 1870

US Industrial Production | |
(End-year |
wesc haere | .

year change

os bs en 6 Oe RF
Percent of cyte time elapsed

FIGURE 15-4: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1875 TO 1908

164

--- PAGE 181 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE

CHAPTER 15
Percentol eye time elapsed
so : oo ov 0
‘US Industrial Production
(End-year)

20 »

S toscctedpater
or a
of we os mn we on we a we ee wn mF
Percentof ye time elapsed

FIGURE 15-5: MOMENTUM OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1911 TO 1940

The inter-cycle hiatus

The gap between cycles seems to be very important to the law of vibration. On
the one hand, the gap undoubtedly embodies unfinished business from the just-
ended incorporation cycle. This latter almost invariably contains an intra-cycle
recession (or slowdown), which will have impacted as a shock. The inter-cycle
hiatus then allows the system to deal to some extent with remaining problems
from this shock. But the important point is that this part of the process is likely
to occur within the context of the existing environment. The environment itself
doesn’t necessarily change. Such a transformation only really starts to occur
during the first (separation) cycle of the next era.

On the other hand, the inter-cycle hiatus does contain an essential forward-
looking focus. In terms of the Table 14-1 of Chapter 14, it is part of the ‘Do’
that initiates the inner octaves of the subsequent overarching cycle: The
important point is that the interruptions are not new shocks as such; they are,
instead, periods that are charged with creative energy. In the context of economic
activity, they embrace all the forces that eventually generate a paradigm shift.
These include — but are not confined to — political disquiet, labour unrest and
policy ineffectiveness.

The central problem for analysis — at least in the context of Mr. Gann’s pattern
~ is that the inter-cycle hiatus does contain a genuine degree of randomness: it

"Such inner octaves will start theoretically at Re, Me, and ‘So’ of the higher-level octave.

--- PAGE 182 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

is not always easy to isolate in the historical data and its locus is not easy to
forecast. It invariably consists of an advance and contraction, but the amplitude
of each of the swings seems unpredictable. In practice, it may often be
appropriate just to assign the experience of the inter-cycle hiatus to the cycle
that is just ending.

Long-term order

If the inter-cycle hiatuses are nevertheless excluded from the behavioural
patterns, it is possible to calculate an average of the patterns in Figures 15-2 to
15-5 and compare that average to the configuration produced from Mr. Gann’s
law of vibration. Figure 15-6 shows the results after each of the underlying inner
octave cycles have been co-ordinated in length by mathematically stretching the
shorter cycles to match the length of the longest cycle.

The correspondence between the patterns is very compelling. The average
separation cycle incorporates the archetypal 1-2-3/A-B-C pattern, with wave B
containing its own a-b-c pattern. The average change cycle exhibits two clear
peaks, one early in the cycle and one late. And the average incorporation cycle
contains the initial three-wave advance, a significant intra-cycle contraction, and
an end-phase recovery and setback. Moreover, all three sub-cycles contain the
expected inter-cycle contraction.

Percentof cx time elapsed
o 5 @ Ss nw NR He He OH OK Rw Rw RF

year change

year change

Cm tverge tour eesit808 2940)

as = ~~ tepectespatern 6
t a
os EN ee

FIGURE 15-6: AVERAGE PATTERN OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1801 TO 1940

166

--- PAGE 183 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

There are three important conclusions that can be drawn from this analysis. The
first is that there is a strong concurrence between the expected and actual shape
of the first inner octave cycle that initiates each of the three big cycles. This
agreement confirms the importance of the shape of the first (i.e. separation)
cycle in a triad, Once an archetypal three-up/three-down (1-2-3/A-B-C) pattern
has emerged, it means that a whole new process is well underway, and that the
shape of the next two cycle beats are (to some extent) forecastable.

The second ~ and related — conclusion is that the time elapse of the initial
separation cycle is going to provide a very good indication of the time elapse of
the whole overarching cycle. This is because the second (change) and third
(incorporation) cycles tend towards an equal length, both with the separation
cycle and with one another. In practice, there is often some variability between
the second and third cycles, but a lengthening in one seems to result in a
contraction in the other.

In principle, the combined length of the change and incorporation cycles should
be twice the length of the initial separation cycle. Hence, for example, the first
sub-cycle in Figure 15-5 starts in 1911 and lasts for 10 years. This implies that
the whole vibration will last for another two cycle beats of 10 years each, so that
the overarching cycle should end in 1941. In the event it finished in 1940, which
is encouragingly close.

The archetypal pattern

The third conclusion is based on the fact that there is a close theoretical match
between the shape of the separation cycle within a triad and the average of all
three inner octave cycles. This similarity was originally shown in Figure 14-2 of
Chapter 14, and is shown more directly in Figure 15-7. The average cycle has a
smaller amplitude than the separation cycle, because the oscillations tend to
become damped as they evolve. But the parallels are unmistakeable.

The inference is that the shape either of the separation cycle or of the expected
average can be used to estimate the evolution of all three cycles in a triad. As a
corollary, if the process of averaging a series of fluctuations produces a pattern
that is similar to either of those shown in Figure 15-7, then it is likely that the
fluctuations are tracking a genuine cycle. In effect, this is what happened in
Figures 9-4 and 9-5 of Chapter 9. The process of averaging a series of 3.5-year
cycle beats in the Dow Jones Industrial Average produced a basic three-up/three-
down pattern.

167

--- PAGE 184 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Position of page change within oyde
or 3 4 8 6 7 8 8 w
2 . . 10

Inner octave 3

1s

Chargein page numbers
Change in page numbers

yen td ‘
yerage cycle A

D230 4 3 6 7 @ ) wn e
Pouivonotpae change wince

FIGURE 15-7: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERN

Figure 15-8 therefore shows the average of all of the nine inner octave cycles that
were used in Figure 15-6. The pattern is a very close match for the average
expected pattern. This means that, once the periodicity of the vibrations have
been established by the separation cycle, the average pattern can be used to track
the two subsequent cycles in the triad. It is, of course, important to remember
that the patterns constructed by St. Matthew, Mr. Gurdjieff and Mr. Gann all
conform to this same archetype.

These comments confirm that the law of vibration is not just confined to the
observable overall pattern and its three inner sub-cycles. It also involves three
specific features: the distinctive shape of the first cycle, which mirrors the shape
of the whole cycle; the importance of the periodicity of the first cycle in
determining the length of the whole overarching cycle; and the relatively
unstructured inter-cycle hiatus at the end of a set of three inner octave cycles.
There may well be other aspects that are, as yet, undiscovered.

THE POST-WAR PERIOD

We now have enough information to move on to an analysis of the post-war
period. On annual data, the final war-induced momentum low occurred in
1945; but, on monthly data, it occurred in February 1946. Figure 15-9 shows
the 12-month momentum of US output from November 1940, and therefore

--- PAGE 185 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

also shows the inter-cycle hiatus that ran from November 1940 to February
1946. In effect, the hiatus coincides with the Second World War. Overlaid on
the momentum is Mr. Gann’s expected three-phase pattern of vibration.

Percentot cycle time elapsed
© 8 15 2 31 38 46 Se 62 69 77 85 92 100

4+ eee $1
JS Industrial Production

2 (End-year) fz
‘Dota sources: NBER & FRE |
10 3

years change

L-years change

 Mverage of 12 cycles (1801-1940)

|
o 8 om wk ae 68 77 BS 92 100
Percent of cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 15-8: THE AVERAGE EXPECTED PATTERN AND ACTUAL BEHAVIOUR; 1801-1940

Nov4dNov43 Now A —Mov49 Hows? NovSS —Mov'SBNev:61Nov'6d Now? Now 70 Mov.73 Now'76—Now79
perenataare a i °

| US Industrial Production

Seperation _

FIGURE 15-9: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, 1946-78

169

--- PAGE 186 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The results are quite remarkable. The first (separation) cycle exhibits the pattern that
is associated with a new phase of development: a very clear 1-2-3 advance is followed
by a pronounced A-B-C contraction; and, within this latter, wave B subdivides into
three (a-b-c) waves of its own. The wave C downswing ends in 1956, which means
that the length of the initiating separation cycle is about 10.5 years.

This timing can be confirmed by two calculations. The first is that the end-date
coincides with the expected date, once the actual highs and lows of the
separation cycle are matched with the expected pattern. Second, when
subsequent oscillations in the change and incorporation cycles are matched to
the expected pattern, the overall cycle ends in 1978 and is therefore 32 years
long. In other words the length of the whole cycle is three times the length of
the initial separation cycle. Nevertheless, this interpretation does not include
the deep recession of 1957-58, which would therefore have been difficult to
anticipate in real time.

The second (change) cycle then shows a sharp recovery and a pronounced fall,
followed by a more prolonged advance. It ends with a late, but relatively sharp,
drop. The whole cycle therefore starts in 1956 and ends in 1967. It is just over
10.5 years long.

Finally, the third cycle shows an initial three-phase recovery, followed by a very
sharp drop. There is then a muted recovery, followed by a short contraction that
ended the whole cycle. As theory predicts, however, there was then an inter-
cycle hiatus that initially involved a short recovery, but was subsequently
dominated by another prolonged contraction.

This pattern is relevant to understanding the events of the 1970s. The period
was highly inflationary as a result of the method that was used to finance the
Vietnam War. Too much money was borrowed from the banks rather than from
savers, and monetary growth exploded. There was, eventually, a financial crisis:
government bond yields soared during 1974 and, not surprisingly, the private
sector dropped into a deep recession. But this event did not end the cycle. It
was an intra-cycle shock that had to be absorbed by markets, by businesses and
(most importantly) by policy makers.

Resistance to change

The truth is that politicians will only put aside — or more often, adjust —
favoured policies when they are actually faced with a crisis. In this case, the
devastation that was being wreaked by the combination of government spending
and inflation was placed in temporary abeyance when the Vietnam War drew
toa close. However, proper measures to deal with the problem were too slow in
materialising. As always with government spending, there was resistance from

170

--- PAGE 187 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

the electorate. President Gerald Ford made some half-hearted attempts and
President Jimmy Carter was unable to gain a second term in the White House
because of his more aggressive proposals. Consequently, inflation advanced again
in the late 1970s,* monetary policy was reluctantly tightened and the private
sector slumped back into recession.

The period from late 1978 to mid-1980 involved resistance to change rather
than actual change. But, underneath, there was a massive build-up of pressure
in the desire to deal with inflation. The electorate eventually recognised the
seriousness of the problem after being confronted with rising oil prices,
widespread and disruptive strikes, soaring interest rates and high unemployment.
This strengthening of unreleased tension is the central characteristic of an inter-
cycle hiatus. The appointment (by President Carter) of Paul Volcker to the post
of Chairman of the Federal Reserve was probably the most important reflection
of the changed attitudes to inflation. Mr. Volcker quickly moved to tighten
monetary policy at the expense of higher unemployment.

THE 1980-2012 CYCLE

The idea of a mid-cycle contraction in the incorporation cycle and of a relatively
unstructured interlude — or inter-cycle hiatus — between that cycle and the next
separation cycle helps to explain the five-year gap between the 1974-75 crisis
and the start of the next big cycle in 1980. Figure 15-10 shows the 12-month
momentum in US output between 1978 and 2012. The hiatus that occurred
between 1978 and 1980 is shown as the shaded area. The momentum pattern
is then overlaid with a schematic of Mr. Gann's ideal three-phase pattern.

Again, the parallels between actual and expected momentum are compelling.
First, the chart confirms the presence, sequentially, of a separation cycle in 1980-
91, a change cycle in 1991-2001, and an incorporation cycle that started in
2001 and is due to end in 2012 or soon thereafter. The patterning clearly picks
out the three-wave recovery after the 1980 low, the strong advance after the
mid-1990s and the much weaker performance in the first half of the 2000s. It
also clearly identifies the deep end-cycle recession of 1990-91 and the sudden
end-cycle recession of 2001-02.

Second, the separation cycle lasts for just over 10.5 years, ending in March 1991.
This suggests that the change and incorporation cycles, when combined, should
last for just over 21 years, finishing in mid to late-2012. The whole pattern from
1980 should therefore last for about 32 years. Importantly, this is the same

* One of the factors was a surge in oll prices in 1979, caused initially by the overthrow of the Shah of Iran and
subsequently by the interruption of oil supplies during the Iran-Iraq War. It is arguable, however, that oil prices
would nor have had the same impact if inflationary expectations had not already been hyper-activated.

--- PAGE 188 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

duration as the 1946-1978 cycle, and the same as the average of the four cycles
that evolved between 1801 and 1940. The chart therefore confirms the idea
that, in general, the US economy has been driven by an oscillation that lasts for
more than three decades and that sub-divides into three lower-level cycles each
of which lasts 10 to 11 years.

Feb78 FebSiFebat—Feb87 —Feb90“Feb93_— Feb SG Fab99 Feb? FebUS Feb OS eb
3 (Monthly)
2 Data source FRE 2

nee
ieee sepaaton BE Change a oe
eer fern” Tevet Wena?” fenso feos) Fens rene reba fenas. tenon Fein,

FIGURE 15-10: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, 1980-2012

Third, the pattern picks out intra-cycle weakness in 1984-85, 1995-96 and
(most noticeably) 2007-09. These particular episodes were just over 11 years
apart, which resonates with the periodicity of the lower-level cycles and with
the overarching higher-level cycle.

The 2007-09 shock and its aftermath

Presented in this way, Mr. Gann’s pattern reveals the intrinsic purpose of the
2007-09 economic contraction. It was a profound shock that has started a
process of adjustment. This adjustment will consist of two parts. First, it will
consist of the recovery and setback that terminates the natural evolution both
of the incorporation cycle that began in 2001 and of the overarching cycle that
began in 1980. Second, the adjustment will then consist of an inter-cycle hiatus
that will build-up the energy for a subsequent separation cycle.

At the time of writing (2012), the first (recovery and setback) stage of the process
is all but over. This can be confirmed from Figure 15-11, which shows the
evolution of the 2001-12 incorporation cycle, compared with the expected

172

--- PAGE 189 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

change. The US economy should have completed its initial response to the
2007-09 collapse by the end of 2012 and thereby set the stage for the second
(hiatus) stage of adjustment. In quantitative terms, this second stage should —
on the basis of previous cycles — last for three to four years and consist of an
initial short recovery followed by a bout of pronounced weakness.

‘Curreteyce(2001-date)
Novi NowO? —NavOS—Ravd— Rows Novi0G—NovaT—Now08—Now0 Row]. Now Mow?

os s is

nf rested ab cyte 2008 ater nse, wer ws a

6 6
ee ee ee ee
Percentot cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 15-11: THE 2001-2012 INCORPORATION CYCLE IN US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

This implies that there will be some form of an economic recovery between late-
2012 and (possibly) mid-2014, followed by a period of weakness. At the
moment, we can expect this weakness to be relatively pronounced, but we
cannot know precisely how long it will last. On the basis of historical precedent,
an end-date target of somewhere between mid-2015 and mid-2016 seems
appropriate. The central point is that the period will almost certainly be
characterised by: a progressive build-up of economic tensions; deepening
uncertainty about financial market trends; and rising anger towards ineffective
politicians. Public rhetoric will increasingly focus on whatever it is that needs
to be changed. When sufficient political momentum for deep change has
developed, then — and only then ~ a whole new pattern of vibration will begin.

CONCLUSION

In the 1920s, William Gann constructed a book in order specifically to convey
what he considered to be secret or sacred information. The Tunnel Thru The Air

173

--- PAGE 190 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

visually and integrally resonated with the Golden Ratio and the Law of Three,
and carried within its architecture a very specific pattern of vibration derived
from the Law of Seven. Ata basic level, the pattern was virtually identical to the
configurations associated with George Gurdjieff and St. Matthew. As such it
can therefore be regarded both as a symbol of transformation and as a pattern
that is likely to appear in indices of collective human activity when a change is
actively underway.

However, Mr. Gann’s pattern was much more complex than either Mr.
Gurdjieff’s or St. Matthew's. When deconstructed, it reveals a three-phase
oscillation, with each phase displaying a marked inter-cycle contraction.
Significantly, the three-phase pattern is circumscribed by an undefined shock at
its start and by an unforecastable inter-cycle hiatus at its close.

In order to assess the practicability of Mr. Gann’s ideas, his three-phase pattern
was applied to a data series on US industrial production. To an untrained eye,
thar data series looked random. Moreover, it almost certainly contained
measurement errors. Nevertheless, the results were remarkable. Even though
individual periods showed significant divergences from Mr. Gann's ideal pattern,
the average of all periods clearly converged on that pattern. This is consistent
with the idea that collective behaviour contains a strong deterministic element.
Hence, it is possible to confirm our location within the big economic and
financial market trends — and anticipate the future trajectory of those trends —
in a way that does not yet seem available to conventional economic analysis.

In truth, however, the analysis has only scratched the surface of a subject that
has huge implications for our understanding both of the nature of cosmic forces
and of the behaviour of humanity. For this reason alone, the comments in this
chapter must not be regarded as the final word on the accuracy, or otherwise,
either of the law of vibration itself or of its application to economic indices.
Other researchers may well come up with other timings and other
interpretations. Furthermore, there are additional layers of meaning and
influence that have not been addressed. Nevertheless, what emerges is evidence
ofan ordered process over which humankind en masse has very little independent
influence. This process is the law of vibration.

The law of vibration, and the energy pattern behind it, shows us something very
specific about the way that energy oscillates within living systems. Insofar as
human beings merge together into collective wholes in search of a sense of safety
and feeling of well-being, they are subject to these oscillations. Perhaps we would
do better to recognise this and, in so doing, facilitate a new social attitude to
politics and economic policy. The alternative is to allow unconscious mass
behaviour — both in the private and public sectors of the economy ~ to create
destabilising excesses.

--- PAGE 191 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 16

THE FINAL WORD

“There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in
your philosophy.”

William Shakespeare (Hamlet: Act 1, Scene V)

SECRET LAWS

There can be little doubt that a very specific pattern was hidden in the structure
of three texts: in St. Matthew's Gospel, in George Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’ Tales
to His Grandson and in William Gann's The Tinnel Thru The Air. There can also
be little doubt that the pattern somehow relates to the processes of change in
living systems, including systems involving collective human behaviour. But
what is less certain is why the authors considered this particular pattern to be
so important — and, in a sense, so sacred — that it had to be hidden.

On the face of it, the pattern is very simple. It is divided into two distinct sections,
both of which involve a three-wave advance followed by a fall. Importantly, the
advance-and-contraction in the first half of the pattern is significantly more
dynamic and potentially destructive than the advance-and-contraction in the
second half. Consequently, the whole pattern has a pronounced leftward bias. At
the very least, the pattern is strongly suggestive of the way that living systems
adjust dynamically to the input of new information and energy.

More generally, however, and given the context within which Mr. Gann
presented his version of the pattern, the design supposedly represents a law of
vibration that pervades the known universe. Its dynamics reflect what Mr.
Gurdjieff called the Law of Seven and its existence would necessarily affirm the

175

--- PAGE 192 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

accompanying presence of a creative Law of Three. According to Mr. Gurdjieff,
these two great cosmic laws are vital both to the evolution of the universe and
to life on this planet.

According to modern scientific enquiry, however, such /aws cannot exist
independently of the narrow context within which they arise. This means either
that science is blind to the presence of certain primordial laws that predate life
on Earth, or that the teachings of St. Matthew and Mr. Gurdjieff are simply
incorrect. Yet even an unsophisticated — and cursory — analysis of some of the
potential applications for the law of vibration reveals at least a hint of its
ubiquity. Hence, there is a strong case for further research on the subject.

Only research by open-minded analysts, working within their own fields of
investigation, can provide the necessary evidence for the reality of a law of
vibration. If it is shown to exist, it will have implications far beyond anything
that has been discussed in this book. It could be relevant to new ideas in
disciplines stretching from quantum physics to astrophysics, from social sciences
to earth sciences, and from biological evolution to genetic mutation.

ALONG HISTORY

But what, then, is its history? What was its original source? Who had access to
it and why? And for what reason has it been so deeply hidden? The answers —
insofar as they can be found — seem to arise more in the form of an ever-
deepening mystery than as a precise solution. The alleged pattern of vibration
presents itself as — to use Mr. Gurdjieff’s terminology — a left-biased
“enneagram”-type pulse, But, as far as is known, Mr, Gurdjieff himself did not
actually reference such a bias in his enneagram teachings. In hiding it, therefore,
in Beelzebub’ Tales, he was implicitly signalling its importance and preserving it
for some future purpose.

He was also taking the same path that St Matthew had done almost 2000 years
earlier. Indeed, the fact that the left-biased enneagram pulse was so deeply buried
in a tiny piece of text in one of the Christian Gospels, and then left there without
any further comment, compounds its mysterious nature and adds credibility to
its potential importance within the flow of history. It seems highly unlikely that
anyone would have been able to recognise its implications in the first century
C.E. because there would have been no way of applying it directly to the then-
known world. If anything, it is likely that it would have been regarded as being
an important, but unintelligible, symbolic representation of God. But are we
any better placed now? Even if it is found to be widely applicable to processes
within living organisms and systems, would science be able to accept its
implications about the nature of the universe?

176

--- PAGE 193 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE FINAL WORD
CHAPTER 16

WILLIAM GANN’S LEGACY

Mr. Gann undoubtedly had more than just an inkling about what the pattern
meant. He considered it to have been sufficiently important to construct a
version that carried a remarkable volume of extra information. His pattern
contains a reference to a three-phase structure to evolution, it suggests that there
is an objective element to the energy of time, and it intimates that the oscillation
of living systems can be tracked through time using geometry. His construction
undoubtedly took a lot of thought, effort and skill.

As it happens, it has long been rumoured that Mr. Gann knew something that
was unusual — which is why his extant work remains so popular even though it
is largely unfathomable. But the precise details of his concept of a law of
vibration have never been made available in the sort of detail that is being
presented here. Mr. Gann hid the information in the complex structure of a
largely irrelevant book. Why did he do so? One answer, of course, is that it added
to his sense of importance. But this seems misplaced, given his attitude to
spirituality that was evidenced in the most obscure of his books, The Magic
Word. In fact, as shown in Appendix 8, Mr. Gann applied the same techniques
to The Magic Word as he did to Tunnel.

It seems likely that — for some reason — Mr. Gann felt that the pattern behind
the law of vibration couldn't be revealed during his lifetime, but nevertheless
had to be made available for future use. This resonates with Mr. Gurdjieff’s
treatment of the pattern.

Perhaps the most important fact, however, is the one that is the simplest: the
intellectual environment in the first half of the 20th century still wasn’t
sufficiently receptive to the idea of unknown /aws embedded in the cosmos. In
the 300 years since the dawning of the Age of Enlightenment, scientific research
has progressively shifted the focus of attention away from inner truths and
eternal verities to external events and quantifiable realities.

More recently, it is true, the evidence from quantum physics and from
consciousness research has started to blur the distinctions between inner and
outer, and between the infinitesimally small and the infinitely large.
Nevertheless, there is still a vacuum in scientific research caused by the exclusion
of purpose, meaning and overarching self-organisation. Consequently, science
cannot yet explicitly recognise the existence — let alone the validity — of a Law
of Seven or of a Law of Three. So it literally cannot see the specific pattern that
these laws are supposed to generate.

"Gann, The Magic Word.

--- PAGE 194 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

CONCLUSION

Perhaps, therefore, when St. Matthew's version of the pattern was originally
conceived, it was destined to be found only when sufficient supportive
information was generally available, and when the research environment was
receptive to new ideas and new approaches. In other words, St. Matthew's
pattern could be the harbinger of — or even the catalyst for — one or more
paradigm shifts within the scientific community. Indeed, it may be that Mr.
Gann and Mr. Gurdjieff are links in a chain of understanding that connects the
modern era all the way back — at least — to St. Matthew.

And this raises two intriguing possibilities. The first is that the pattern is in some
way an archetypal symbol for the presence of information within the deep-structure
of the universe. The pattern does not manifest in a quantifiable manner until it is
somehow triggered; but the fact that the same basic pattern is always observable
under conditions of change suggests that it may be a genuine outward sign of the
inner coherence within what David Bohm has called the “implicate order”’ Perhaps
it was even embedded within the dynamics of the so-called “Big Bang”.

The second possibility relates to the message that St. Matthew might have been
trying to convey. The preliminary layer of interpretation of his Greek text reveals
the symbol for the astrological Age of Pisces that was gestating 2000 years ago.
A subsequent layer of analysis then reveals the left-biased enneagram-type
pattern, but only when account is taken of the 12-fold structure of the Zodiac.
It is therefore possible that St. Matthew's pattern is a valid symbol for the new
astrological Age into which we are stumbling ~— the Age of Aquarius. The pattern
is, after all, wave-focused in its dynamics. But, more strikingly, it is also wave-
like in its appearance. A comparison of the pattern with the traditional
representation of the symbol of Aquarius not only reveals the parallels between
the two, but it also shows a particular difference: St. Matthew's version has a
conspicuous tsunami-like shape.

If this conjecture is correct, there would be two implications: first, St. Matthews
text unquestionably transcends Time; and, second, the new Age will involve
profound changes to — among other things — humankind’s social, political and
economic structures.

It is my opinion that the pattern that St. Matthew hid in his Gospel, that George
Gurdjieff concealed in Beelzebub’ Tales to His Grandson and that William Gann
buried in The Tunnel Thru The Air, is profoundly meaningful. It is not just a
symbolic representation of an implausible law relating to oscillations within the
Earth's biosphere, but is instead a container of fundamental truths about the
deep-structure of the cosmos. We can ignore it. Or we can accept it for what it
may well be: the final statement of a revelation that was initiated in St. Matthew's
Gospel almost 2000 years ago.

"See David Bohm, Coherence and the Tmplicate Order (Routledge 8c Kegan Paul, London, 1980)

178

--- PAGE 195 of 225 ---

[OCR] Appendices

APPENDIX 1

NUMERICAL EQUIVALENTS OF NEW
TESTAMENT GREEK LETTERS

Lowercase Ja Fy Y 5 é ¢ 6
Uppercase | A 8 r A E Z H ic)
Number 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 9
Lowercase |; K A u v & ° 7
Uppercase |/ K A M N Sy oO 7
Number 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Lowercase |p ac |r v ¢ ix y @
Uppercase |P =z T Y QO x sf n
Number 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800

In addition, the value of the combined letters OT could be either 6 or 500.

179

--- PAGE 196 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 197 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 2

ST. MATTHEW’S GOSPEL, CHAPTER 12, VERSES
38-40. GREEK TEXT

Tor
300 70300
os

Then
ree
200 eo 50
1180
Ae y
53
os
ano
1 © 70
181

trom
VERSE 38
° 5
0 4
te be
yer
205 0
6
gereranon
onw
383
mimodous sign
ou
70 400
470
one
20 8 40
a3
VERSE 39

a an
5 1 0
saa
yp a
3 101
1340
70 50 wos
oop
200 70 80
220
yu
5 1
05
are
51 0
209
ero
5 10 7 %
560 89
4 7 9 8
cor
state gven
5 10 7 50

200

20

gs

eps e
20 10010 9
ware
21 05
51 6
25

rv,

onuwe
ms 0 5
383

iracdous 8
np @
2 0 0 8
vnpe
© 8 10%

25
00k
s mt 0

love
0 om 50 +

noav autre
8 20 1 © 1 400 300 800
1501
ov ker oo
800 50 a1 ~ soo
2 1672
wo phanseos
aorade a.
1 20 01 ws os
208
wows
toy 16 ere
wm 09 ws 5 1 50
cy
persona
eros frome v
wm 5 Dm Ss %
0
sone
was wore
m1 0 8 7 10 600
x oa
nares rae
om s 0 @ 1 0
»
aura” eu
1 420 300 8 s
709 1s
" tony
row "pe
300 70 00 = 100 70
770 1520
(re prophet

ase agRe

ge

es

es
e+

wacdous 897

°

10 20

ov

181

--- PAGE 198 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER

THE LAW OF VIBRATION

oon
00 200 60
yes

1 08
rope
300 100 5
ars

VERSE 40

‘
5

10

e
100

Bo

ge

3°

Ba

Y
3

108

ap
1 10

ines

te

wtbe

a
®
364
oye

we
ws

sges

g>

ge

gO

BO

pies

@aze

reyes

30 600 80

1061
Jona

300 70 «a0 200

«

ras
m1 0
ons

40 10 70
00

a koa
0 ea)
root
m1 0
ey

5 60
8
eu
5 0
300 70
0
ote
soa
wo
5 10

vurr
0 400 20 300
on

not
rae y
308 2003
8 a
ote on

©
20

Source: Nestle-Aland Greek-English New Testament, Deutsche Bibelgeselischaft, Stuttgart, 1990.

182

--- PAGE 199 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 3
THE VESICA PISCIS AND TIME

It can be shown that the element of time is implicitly present in the vesica piscis.
St. Matthew's version relates the circle of Jonas to the square of the Son of man,
and measures 1061 units in width and 1592 units in height. First, the numeric
value of the Greek word nepag, meaning “days” is 354; and the width of the
diagram (i.e. 1061 or 1062 units) is three times the number 354. That is:

354 x 3 = 1062

The width of the diagram is therefore symbolically equivalent to 3 “days”. See
Figure A3-1 (page 184).

Second, the total height of the diagram is measured as the radius of the Jonas’s
circle plus the height of the Son's square. That is:

1061 + 531 = 1592

The number 1592 is virtually equivalent to the numeric value of “three nights”
(ise. 1586). The height of the diagram therefore corresponds to “three nights”.
See Figure A3-1 again.

Hence, the two phrases “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and “the Son of man
in the heart of the earth” can be taken to refer to a diagram involving a circle
and a square (or, two circles and two squares encapsulating a vesica piscis) whose
total boundary is described by the term “three days and three nights”.
Furthermore, if the width is divided by the height, the result is a number that
has already been discussed. It is the number of the active creative power in the
universe, namely 666. That is:

1061 / 1592 = 0.666

In other words, any construction of the vesica piscis references not just the active
energy of creation but also the passage of time.

--- PAGE 200 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

KS

/~~

FIGURE A3-1: 3 “DAYS” AND “THREE NIGHTS”

L9OOL
wS}yBlu eeuy}, = Z6SL = L9OL + LES

184

--- PAGE 201 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 4

THE STRUCTURE OF WILLIAM GANN’S
TUNNEL THRU THE AIR

Chapter number _ [Chapter pages Number of pages _| Proportion of total (%)
Start [End

7 7 5 5 3
2 6 7 2 6
3 18 34 7 8
4 35 29 5 7
5 50 al 2 4
6 62 74 13 Vv
di 75 84 10 9
8 85 89 5 [zz
9 90 104 5 25
10 105 14 10 28
7 15 125 7 3
2 126 155 30 Eg
B 156 170 15 36
14 im 186 6 i
5S 187 194 8 42
16 195 7m 7 a4
7 22 27 é a7
18 28 2a a 50
19 2 236 15 33
20 27 a 56
2 250 256 7 58
2 257 261 5 al
B 262 268 7 64
24 269 25 7 7
25 276 289 4 69
26 290 299 10 [72
7 300 32 B 75
28 33 324 12 78
29 325 337 3 ai
30 338 356 9 3

185

--- PAGE 202 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapternumber | Chapter pages Number of pages | Proportion of total (%)
Start End

31 357 374 18 86

32 375 381 7 89

33 382 391 10 92

34 392 401 10 94

35 402 406 5 97

36 407 418 12 100

Source: Financial Guardian Publishing, New York, 1927, Reprinted Lambert-Gann Publishing,
Washington, USA, 1990.

--- PAGE 203 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 5

THE STRUCTURE OF GEORGE GURDJIEFP’
BEELZEBUB’S TALES

Chapter | Start Finish Pages Changes (%) |Reverse chapter | Changes (%)
1 3 50 48 48 400.00
2 51 55 > -89.58 47 8.33
Ed 56 65 10 100.00 46 -25.00
4 66 69 4 -60.00 45 38.46
5 70 72 3 -25.00 44 -59.38
6 73 75 > 0.00 43 -53,28
7 76 78 3 0.00 42 191.49
8 79 80 2 -33.33 4) 18.97
3 81 86 6 200.00 40 -15.94
10 87 3 7 16.67 39 38.00
N 94 97 4 42.86 38 61.29
12 98 102 15 25.00 37 933.33
3 103 105 3 -40.00 36 0.00
14 106 108 3 0.00 35 -95.45
15 109 120 12 300.00 34 450.00
16 121 133 3 8.33 35 42.86
7 134 148 1S 15.38 32 -38.24
18 149 176 28 86.67 3 “54.67
19 W7 206 30 714 30 108.33
20 207 226 20 33.33 29 56.52
2 227 251 2s 25.00 28 -417
22 252 267 16 -36.00 27 84.62
23 268 314 47 193.75 26 116.67
24 35 346 32 31.91 25 81.25
25 347 352 6 81.25 24 “31.91
26 353 365 B 116.67

27 366 389 24 84.62

28 390 412 23 417

29 413 448 36 56.52

30 449 $23 75 108.33

3 524 557 34 -54.67

32 558 578 2) 38.24

187

--- PAGE 204 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapter [Start [Finish oes Changes (%) [Reverse chapter [Changes (%)
33 579 590 42.86
34 591 656 a ~__ [450.00
5 ica 659 “95.45
36 660 662 : 0.00
7 668 698 31 933.33
38 694 743 50 6129
39 744 Bi gy 38.00
40 813 870 58 715.94
a Ea 37 a7 71897
a2 38 105437 19149
@ 1055 _‘|ime 64 “53.28
44 m9 1144 26 "59.38
45 145 1160 16 38.46
46 761 72 12 25.00
a7 173 7183 v 833
28 7184 1238 55 400.00

Source: Fifth Impression, Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1967

188

--- PAGE 205 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 6

THE STRUCTURE OF THE FIRST 28 CHAPTERS
IN BEELZEBUB’S TALES

The number of pages in each of the first 28 chapters can be found in Appendix
5. Figure AG-1 plots the chapter number against both the number of pages
(lower section) and the percentage change in the number of pages (upper
section). At first glance the pattern appears somewhat random, but the
underlying order comes into focus both when the lower part of the diagram is
compared with Figure 10-1 of Chapter 10, and when the upper part of the
diagram is split into three equal sections.

The lower part of the diagram shows that, from the eighth chapter onwards,
there is a rising five-wave pattern, with the fourth wave consisting of three
sections, denoted a-b-c. The pattern is essentially similar to one derived from
the whole of Beelzebub’ Tales and shown in Figure 10-1. They both show a rising
pattern, including a three-phase fourth wave. If we continue to assume that the
page and chapter structure of the book was carefully designed, then the
similarities are not accidental.

More importantly, however, is the fact that the upper part of the diagram can
be seen as showing a sequence of three enneagram-type cycles: the first pattern
is a left-biased cycle, whose wave b makes a new high; the second pattern is a
centred cycle with an impulsive wave 3; and the third cycle is slightly left-biased,
but has a muted finish.

If we put these two features together, it is possible that Mr. Gurdjieff was
pointing to extra dimensions to the enneagram and the associated law of
vibration. An impulsive movement in any system is not only modulated by
cycles, but the latter also appear in batches of three.’ From one perspective, this
is a natural deduction from the presence of three inner octaves in a complete
outer octave. From another perspective, it implies that each sub-cycle will be
influenced by developments in the higher-level cycle (or trend) of which it is a
part; and that activity arising within each lower level cycle will, in turn,
contribute to the evolution of the higher-level cycle.

"We thus have a situation where an apparent five-phase impulse movement is actually the result of three contiguous
enneagram-type fluctuations placed around a rising trend. This may help to reconcile Ralph Elliott's five-phase
Wave Principle with the idea of triadic cycles.

--- PAGE 206 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Just as with Mr. Gann’s pattern, Mr. Gurdjieff’s triadic pattern can be found in
data series of collective human behaviour. Figure AG-2 shows the locus of
producer confidence in Germany. Such confidence is here represented by a
business climate index that is calculated by the German /fo Jnstitute from
monthly survey data. The broad oscillations are tracked by the percentage
deviation from a 10-year moving average of the data. Again, the parallels are
compelling. Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern predicts three cycle beats with a common
periodicity, and this is exactly what emerges in Germany after 1982. Three beats
of a 10-year cycle — i.e. 1982-93, 1993-2003 and 2003-12(?) — constitute an
overarching 30-year cycle. What is particularly noticeable in Germany's case is
the first cycle’s surge in optimism just prior to, and then immediately after, the
fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989; the second cycle’s three waveness after the recession
of 1991-92; and, eventually, the third cycle’s surge in optimism in 2003-07,
followed by the panic of 2008.

350
300
Ew
a 200
5 150
5 100
$%
go
50 a
100 . a
t_Fistbest___$ Seconabeat_} Thirdbeat_f
so
changin number of pages per chapter (Lh.scale} 5
«
——Number of pages pr chapter (rh scale)
pages per chat 3 i
b amd
v ~ fo i
1 tL 4 » *
—— 2 5
©2234 5 6 7 8 8 10913219 14.15.16 17 18 19 2021 22 23 24 25 2627 28

‘Chapter number
FIGURE A6-1: THREE PHASES IN A COMPLETED CYCLE

There would, of course, be some difficulties in using Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern as
a blueprint for all cycles. For example, Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern seems to have
reversed the first and second cycles of Mr. Gann’s pattern. It may be that Life
itself indicates which of the two patterns has to be used. In addition, some of
the short-term fluctuations have different amplitudes to what might have been
expected. Even so, the timings of the important moves are very precise.

190

--- PAGE 207 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDICES

i esa heir octet

Source 120 +61 Garett scheme patern x

. "s
t ‘}
i H
f° “4
i. 4
3 3

istoycle

FIGURE A6-2: MR. GURDJIEFF'S PATTERN OF VIBRATION; GERMAN BUSINESS CLIMATE

191

--- PAGE 208 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 209 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 7
THE 1940-45/46 INTER-CYCLE HIATUS

Figure A7-1 shows the momentum of US industrial production between 1921 and
1946. Data is monthly and momentum is shown as a 12-month rate of change. As
already mentioned, monthly data is only available from 1919, but it is nevertheless
placed on a chart thar starts from 1911. In this way, it is possible to show
momentum in the same context as that shown in Figure 15-5 of Chapter 15.

As presented, output momentum follows the general pattern indicated by Mr.
Gann’s inner octave blueprint. However, momentum is much more dynamic
than the blueprint in 1921-22, and is much weaker for longer in 1930-32. It is
important to note that the process ends in 1940. It is followed by a brief rise
into 1941 and then by a very sharp fall into early 1946. On this analysis, the
evolution of the inner octave pattern does appear to end on time, but the
environment created by the exigencies of war meant that another big fall was
still needed during the inter-cycle interruption.

» IS Industrial Production 7”
hI

aft Sicenine t Change a a

FIGURE A7-1: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 12-MONTH CHANGES, 1911-46

193

--- PAGE 210 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 211 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 8
ANOTE ON WILLIAM GANN’S THE MAGIC WORD

In 1950, Mr Gann published a paperback entitled The Magic Word. The parallels
with Tunnel are unmistakeable: The Magic Word includes the instruction that it
is to be read “at least three times over a period of three weeks”; and is embellished
with biblical quotations, aphorisms and blank pages. The similarities suggest
that we can apply the same analytic techniques to The Magic Word as were
applied to Tunnel. Even so, given the subject matter of the book, any conclusions
can only be regarded as conjecture.

Ata straightforward level, the book is an instruction manual for meditation. It
advocates a mantra using the seven-letter/three-syllable word “Jehovah”; it
recommends visualisation techniques; and it encourages attention to breathing.
The full-page diagrams, which are constructed from triangles, circles and words,
can be used for contemplation. Such techniques didn’t really enter popular
consciousness until the 1980s. Mr. Gann’s ideas were therefore significantly
ahead of their time.

Ata more subtle level — and in its original format — the book contains much
more information than might initially be apparent. The first clue comes in the
shape and size of the book. It is 8-11/16 inches wide and 11-1/8 inches high,
which makes it strangely large for a metaphysical text. Even the ratio between
the width and the height (0.78:1) seems not to have any specific meaning.
However, when account is taken of the size of the back as well as the front, and
an allowance is made for the width of the spine, the whole cover forms a Golden
Rectangle, 0.62:1. It looks ordinary, but open it up and something else appears!

When the book is opened, what immediately becomes apparent is that it
includes a number of pages that contain only diagrams, a significant number of
blank pages and a very large number of biblical quotations. The second clue to
additional information, therefore, is that — like Tunnel — The Magic Word has
been padded out. The book is actually divided into: two parts. The first part
contains 16 unnumbered pages: eight pages from the start to the last blank page

Revisions that have been made to The Magic Word Tor recent publication have tnvolved not just a change to the
structure of the book but also considerable alterations to the text. This completely eradicates the hidden message(s)
that Mr. Gann was trying to convey and — in my opinion — dishonours his work.

195

--- PAGE 212 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

before the introduction; and eight pages covering the introduction, the index
and the blank pages after the index. In fact, there are eight blank pages in the
first 16 pages. In effect, the first section therefore contains a threefold reference
to the completed octave, with two being explicit and one — the blank pages —
being implicit.

One interpretation is that the explicit double octave implies the completion of
a whole Gann pattern in its dyadic form, and that the implicit octave references
the influence of other, unseen, forces. This, in turn, suggests that something —

i.e. psychological work or stage of life — has to be complete before the processes
alluded to in The Magic Word can be activated.

‘These processes are referenced in the second — or main — part of the book, which
consists of 12 chapters. Moreover — and unlike in the first part of the book —
each page is numbered. This means that the number of pages in each chapter
can be plotted against the chapter number. When this is done, a very specific
pattern emerges (see Figure A8-1). The first half of the pattern shows a rise and
fall that obviously resonates with the first half of the pattern found in Tunnel.
It is actually much simpler than the version in Tiel, but it contains a clear
three-wave advance followed by a dramatic collapse. Like the original, the third
wave reaches a peak one-third of the way into the pattern and the low occurs
about half way into the pattern.

1, aq

By ui

I, at
“A ' i ” v ce § * x 7 =

FIGURE A8-1: PAGES PER CHAPTER IN THE MAGIC WORD

These similarities not only support the methodologies used in Tunnel, but also
suggest that presence of the pattern in The Magic Word was intentional and

196

--- PAGE 213 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDICES

meaningful. This, in turn, suggests that the three-wave advance and single-wave
contraction may reference a learning process that involves an initial move to the
limits of an unchanged system, followed by a collapse as the system has to adjust
itself to irreversibly changed circumstances.

What is significantly different about the overall pattern in The Magic Word,
however, is that the second half of the configuration shows a persistent rise,
rather than a three-wave rise followed by a fall. In other words, the pattern
doesn't have an explicit termination point. This may well be an allusion to the
results of meditation — at least as experienced by Mr. Gann. The fact, therefore,
that the pattern leaves Chapter 12 (with its implicit reference to the heavens)
ona rising trend hints either at the success of his personal spiritual endeavours
or at least at his expectations regarding those endeavours. This interpretation is
consistent with the fact that the last three pages of the book are left blank. This
could be a reference to The Void of ancient wisdom or to the quantum vacuum
of modern science.

Hence, the pattern in The Magic Word could be interpreted as a process of
development that:

1. Starts when the person is ready (the double octave in the first part of the

book);

2. Involves a period of intense effort, followed by a collapse of internal
psychological structures (the first half of the diagram); and

3. Proceeds steadily into some sense of the numinous (the second half of the
diagram).

These ideas may seem very idealistic. But there are three points that suggest they
may have been part of the intended message: in 1950, the ideas were completely
new; they were being referenced at a time when general religious opinion would
have been overtly hostile; and they are absolutely consistent with Mr. Gann’s
belief in the influence of a Power greater than himself.

The Magic Word almost certainly reflects Mr. Gann's experience of some form
of hidden Christianity. And the diagram buried within it is consistent with —
and therefore validates the idea of — the behavioural pattern concealed in The
Tunnel Thru The Air.

197

--- PAGE 214 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 215 of 225 ---

[OCR] Bibliography

The Holy Bible (Authorised (King James), English Revised Version, 1881)
The Ticker and Investment Digest (December 1909)

Akerlof, George A. and Shiller, Robert J., Animal Spirits: How Human Psychology
Drives the Economy, and Why it Matters for Global Capitalism (Princeton
University Press, 2009)

Aland, Kurt, et al., Greek-English New Testament (Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft,
Stuttgart, 1981)

Bandura, Albert, Social Learning Theory (General Learning Press, New York, 1977)

Bateson, Gregory, Mind and Nature — An Essential Unity (Wildwood House,
London, 1979)

Bennett, John G., Enneagram Studies (Coombe Springs Press, Masham, 1974)
Bennett, John G., Gurdjieff: Making a New World (Harper & Row, New York, 1976)
Bentoy, Itzhak, Stalking the Wild Pendulum (Wildwood House, London, 1978)

Bohm, David, Coherence and the Implicate Order (Routledge & Kegan Paul,
London, 1980)

Bond, Bligh and Lea, Simcox. Gematria (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1917)

le Bon, Gustave, Psychologie des Foules. Reprinted as The Crowd (Macmillan,
New York, 1922)

Campbell, Robert, Fisherman's Guide: A Systems Approach to Creativity and
Organization (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1985)

Coveney Peter and Highfield, Roger, The Arrow of Time (WH. Allen, London, 1990)
Cowan, Bradley F, Pentagonal Time Cycle Theory (Private publication, USA, 2009)

Davis, Joseph H., ‘An Annual Index of US Production, 1790-1915", Quarterly
Journal of Economies (November 2004)

Dyer, John, et al, ‘Consensus decision making in human crowds’, Animal
Behaviour 75:2 (February 2008)

199

--- PAGE 216 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Easton, Alexander (Ed.) and Emery, Nathan (Ed.), The Cognitive Neuroscience
of Social Behaviour (Psychology Press, London, 2005)

Elliott, Ralph Nelson, The Wave Principle (Elliott, New York, 1938)

Fama, Eugene, ‘Random Walks in Stock Prices’, Financial Analysts Journal
(September/October, 1965)

Fideler, David, Jesus Christ, Sun of God: Ancient Cosmology and Early Christian
Symbolism (Quest, Wheaton (II.), 1993)

Gann, William D., The Tunnel Thru The Air (Financial Guardian Publishing,
New York, 1927)

Gann, William D., Supply and Demand Letter: 1929 Annual Stock Forecast (W.
D. Gann Scientific Service Inc, New York, 23 November 1928)

Gann, William D., 45 Years in Wall Street (Library of Gann Publishing Co.,
Pomeroy (Wa.), 1949)

Gann, William D., The Magic Word (Library of Gann Publishing Co, Pomeroy
(Wa.), 1950)

Gimbel, Theo, Form, Sound, Colour and Healing (C.W. Daniel Company Ltd,
Saffron Walden (Essex), 1987)

Gurdjieff, George I., All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of
the Life of Man, or Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson (Routledge & Kegan Paul,
London, 1950)

Hayes, Michael, The Infinite Harmony: Musical Structures in Science and Theology
(Weidenfeld and Nicolson, London, 1994)

Hebb, Donald, The Organisation of Behaviour (John Wiley, New York, 1949)

Jordan, D.W. and Smith, P, Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations (Oxford
University Press, Oxford, UK, 1977)

Keynes, John M., ‘The General Theory of Employment’, Quarterly Journal of
Economics (February 1937)

Keller, David, (Ed.), Breakthroughs in Technical Analysis (Bloomberg Press, New
York, 2007)

Koestler, Arthur, Janus: A Summing Up (Hutchinson, London, 1978)

Kuhn, Thomas, The Theory of Scientific Revolutions (University of Chicago Press,
Chicago (II), 1962)

Laszlo, Ervin, Science and the Re-enchantment of the Cosmos: The Rise of the
Integral Vision of Reality (Inner Traditions, Rochester (Vt.), USA, 2006)

200

--- PAGE 217 of 225 ---

[OCR] BIBLIOGRAPHY

Lawlor, Robert, Sacred Geometry: Philosophy and Practice (Thames and Hudson,
London, 1982)

Lebergott, Stanley, ‘Wages and Working Conditions’, The Concise Encyclopedia
of Economics (Library of Economics and Liberty, Indianapolis (In.), 1993)

Levarie, Sigmund and Levy, Ernst, Tone: A Study in Musical Acoustics (Kent State
University Press (Kent), 1980)

Livio, Mario, The Golden Ratio (Review, London, 2002)
Lucas, Robert, Models of Business Cycles (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1987)
Mandelbrot, Benoit, The Fractal Geometry of Nature (Freeman, New York, 1977)

Malkiel, Burton G., A Random Walk Down Wall Street (W.W.Norton & Co.,
New York, 1973)

Michell, John City of Revelation: On the Proportions and Symbolic Numbers of
the Cosmic Temple (Garnstone Press Ltd., London, 1972)

Michell, John, The New View Over Atlantis (Thames and Hudson, London, 1983)
Michell, John, The Dimensions of Paradise (Thames and Hudson, London, 1988)
Mills, Henry, Teaching and Training (Macmillan, London, 1967)

Moran, Jim, The Wonders of Magic Squares (Vintage Books, New York, 1982)
Mouravieff, Boris, Gnosis (Praxis Institute Press, Newbury (Ma.), 1992)
Murchie, Guy, Music of the Spheres (Dover Publications, New York, 1961)

Muth, John F, ‘Rational Expectations and the Theory of Price Movements’,
Econometrica (July 1961)

Naranjo, Claudio, Ennea- Type Structures (Gateways/IDHHB inc, Nevada City
(Ca.), 1990)

Neumann, Erich, Depth Pychology and a New Ethic (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1990)

Nott, Charles S., Journey Through This World (Routledge & Kegan Paul,
London, 1969)

Ouspensky, Pyotr D., Jn Search of the Miraculous: Fragments of an Unknown
Teaching (Harcourt, Brace & World, New York, 1949)

Plummer, Tony, Forecasting Financial Markets (4th Ed.) (Kogan Page, London, 2003)
Plummer, Tony, Forecasting Financial Markets (6th Ed.) (Kogan Page, London, 2010)

Prechter, Robert R., (Ed.), The Major Works of R.N. Elliott (New Classics Library,
New York, 1980)

201

--- PAGE 218 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

De Santillana, Giorgio and von Dechend, Hertha, Hamlets Mill: An Essay on
Myth and the Frame of Time (Gambit, Boston, 1969)

Shakespeare, William, Hamlet
Schonfield, Hugh, The Essene Odyssey (Element, Shaftesbury (Dorset), 1984)

Schonfield, Hugh, The Original New Testament: A Radical Reinterpretation and
New Translation (Waterstone & Co, London, 1985)

Skidelsky, Robert, ‘The Relevance of Keynes’, Cambridge Journal of Economics
(January 2011)

Smith, Russell A., Gurdjieff Cosmic Secrets (The Dog, Sanger (Tx.), 1993)

Tarnas, Richard, Cosmos and Psyche: Intimations of a New World View (Plume,
New York, 2007)

Ulansey, David, The Origins of the Mithraic Mysteries (Oxford University Press,
London, 1989)

Walker, Kenneth, A Study of Gurdjieff ’s Teaching (Jonathan Cape, London, 1957)

Wellbeloved, Sophia, Gurdjieff, Astrology & Beelzebub’ Tales (Abintra Books,
Aurora (Or.), 2002)

Whitehead, Alfred North, Process and Reality (Free Press, New York, 1969)

Wilber, Ken, Eye to Eye: The Quest for a New Paradigm (Shambhala Publications,
Boston (Ma), 1983)

Wilber, Ken, Up from Eden: A Transpersonal View of Human Evolution
(Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1983)

Wilber, Ken, (Ed.), The Holographic Paradigm (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1985)
Wilber, Ken, The Atman Project (Quest Books, Wheaton (Ill.), 1989)

Wilson, Colin, G. Gurdjieff? The War Against Sleep (The Aquarian Press,
Wellingborough, 1986)

Wilson, Louise L., Catalogue of Cycles (Foundation for the Study of Cycles,
Pittsburgh (Pa.), 1964)

Yau, Shing-Tung and Nadis, Steve, The Shape of Inner Space: String Theory and
the Geometry of the Universes Hidden Dimensions (Basic Books, New York, 2010)

Zukav, Gary, The Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics
(William Morrow, New York, 1979)

202

--- PAGE 219 of 225 ---

[OCR] 38.2% 4-5, 57n, 98

0.382 4, 46, 48, 49, 97, 136
50% 58, 90, 107, 136
61.8% 4-5, 57n, 98

0.618 3n, 4, 6, 15-16, 46, 48, 49, 97,
98n, 116-17, 136, 137, 142

0.666 5-6, 38, 54-5, 56, 57, 153, 183
0.866 34-5

100% 58, 95

38% 46, 118

62% 46, 111, 117-18

666 11-14, 15, 19, 20, 22-3, 38-9, 46,
48-51, 104, 116, 183

1061 27-30, 32-3, 41-2, 45-6, 47, 118,
183

1080 14-15, 19-20, 22-3, 46, 48n, 49,
116

Akerlof, George xiii

Aland, Kurt xv, 12n, 26, 16n
Apollo 42, 45, 48

Aries, astrological age of 36
astrology 2, 3, 8n, 94, 103n, 104n

Bandura, Albert 84n

Bateson, Gregory 17n, 49n, 82n, 134n
bear 85-6,

bear market 76, 88

behaviour

collective xiii-xiv, 6, 24, 80, 81, 83-6,
89, 91, 94, 101, 113, 125, 136, 137,
145, 160-2, 174+5, 190

non-rational xiii, 14, 94,

Index

rational xii, 14, 84, 85, 94
Bennett, John 60, 127n
Bentoy, Itzhak 63n
Bible 6-7, 9n, 11-12, 15, 24, 25, 95
Big Bang 178
Bode'’s Law 65n, 66n
Bohm, David 178
Bond, Bligh 11
bond market 99-100, 154, 170
brain 9n, 76, 82, 84
bull 76, 85, 86, 88
bull market 76, 105

Campbell, Robert 60
carrier wave 99, 157
Carter, Jimmy 171

circle 29-38, 41, 43-4, 49, 56, 61n, 67-
70, 73, 78, 79, 183, 195

diameter of 29, 31, 32, 33, 35, 56

circumference of 29, 35, 43, 56, 68-
9, 73579
of Jonas 30, 34, 183

collective
behaviour xiii-xiv, 6, 24, 80, 81, 83-
6, 89, 91, 94, 101, 113, 125, 136,
137, 145, 160-2, 174+5, 190

beliefs ix, xiii

learning 94

mood ix, xiii

optimism 156, 157, 190
pessimism 157

psychology xiii, 85, 91, 156

203

--- PAGE 220 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

consciousness 9n, 20n, 30n, 32, 36, 62n,
82-3, 84, 126, 177, 195

contractions
inter-cycle 157, 166, 174

intra-cycle 154, 157, 165, 166, 170,
172

Cowan, Bradley 2n
crowd

behaviour xiii-xiv, 6, 24, 80, 81, 83-
6, 89, 91, 94, 101, 113, 125, 136,
137, 145, 160-2, 174+5, 190

psychology xiii, 85, 91, 156

cycle(s) xv, 6, 9, 23, 60-62, 69-70, 72,
73, 86-91, 96-8, 199-101, 108-9,
113, 117n, 120, 122, 132, 141, 143,
147-57, 160-74, 189-91, 193

40-month 90n

3.5-year 90, 167

10-year 108-109, 154, 190
22-year 155

30-year 154, 190

Cycle of Time 62

economic 86-91, 99-101, 108-9,
111-12, 122, 143, 153-6, 160-74,
189-91, 193

extra-terrestrial 2
higher-level 152, 156, 157, 172, 189

incorporation 165, 166, 167, 170,
171-3

inner octave 147-57

limit 86-8

of recurrence 73, 78

planetary 105

separation 162, 166, 167, 168, 170-2

sub- 147-8, 151-2, 154, 156, 160,
162, 166, 167, 168, 189

de Santillana, Giorgio 36n
doublings 54-5, 57-8, 107

Dow Jones Industrial Average 90, 167

Dyer, John x

earth 23-4, 28-30, 32-6, 43, 62, 66n,
176, 178, 183

204

life on 23, 176
economic

activity xiv, 6, 81, 89, 145, 153n, 154,
155, 156, 160, 161, 165

analysis 160-74
behaviour 113
contraction 121-2, 166-7, 170-2

cycles 86-91, 99-101, 108-9, 111-12,
122, 143, 153-6, 160-74, 189-91, 193

data 94
growth 156
history 154
indices 94, 174

oscillations xiv, 86-9, 91, 96, 100,
101, 111, 172

policy xiii, 58, 113, 154, 156, 162,
165, 170-1 174

recession xi, xiii, 153, 155-6, 165,
170-1, 190

recovery 113, 121-2, 142, 151, 152,
153, 154, 163, 166, 170, 171, 172-3

system xiii, 156, 161

theorists ix, xi-xiii, xiv, 83, 85n, 101,
113, 151n

Elliott, Ralph Nelson 89n, 105, 189n
energy
active 38, 46, 48, 49, 97, 116, 136
lunar 14

passive 4, 14, 19, 21, 23, 53, 55, 58,
73, 75, 77-9, 97, 104, 136-8, 145

solar 14-15

gap xiii, 61-2, 65, 67, 72, 74, 76-9,
96, 106-7, 110-11, 119, 151-3, 160,
161

enneagram 68-74, 76-80, 89-90, 93-4,
96, 106, 108-10, 113, 116n, 119,
124, 132-3, 139, 148, 151, 157,
176, 178, 189,

and the circle 68-74, 76-80
and financial markets 81-91
and the Law of Seven 71-2
and the Law of Three 72-4
and the octave 67-80

--- PAGE 221 of 225 ---

[OCR] and perpetual motion 68, 89

and the triangle 68-9, 73, 77, 79, 133
diatonic 79-80

pulse 71, 106, 108-10, 119, 124, 132,
176

crash of 1987 121-2

evolution xi, 6, 17, 20n, 23, 56, 61-2,
70-1, 73, 76, 78, 79, 82, 89, 96,
126, 128, 145, 155-6, 176, 177,
189
of thought 48-9

Fama, Eugene 101n
Federal Reserve 161, 163, 171
Fibonacci sequence 3, 98
Fideler, David 13n, 14n, 43n, 45
financial markets xii, 3, 56-8, 71, 76, 81-
91, 94, 99, 101, 107, 121, 136,
145, 155, 160, 170
panic of 2008 xi, 161
First World War 162
fission/fusion 84
force
active 21, 77,79

passive 4, 14, 19, 21, 23, 53, 55, 58,
73, 75, 77-9, 97, 104, 136-8, 145

third 4, 19-20, 21, 22, 25
Ford, Gerald 171
fractal pattern 89
freemason 9

Gann, William Delbert ix, xv, 2-6, 8-9,
23-4, 107, 111, 127-8, 131, 135-
42, 144-5, 147-57, 160, 162-3,
165-6, 168-9, 171-2, 177, 190,
193

and astrology 2

and the Bible 7, 25-7,

and the law of vibration xvi, 6, 93-
101

and financial market analysis 56-8,
99-101

financial market trading success xiv, 1

INDEX

The Magic Word 3, 9n, 177, 195-7
The Tunnel Thru The Air 3-6, 94-9,
113, 115, 159, 173-4, 175, 185-6,
squaring price with time 51n, 136-7,
139, 144

gematria xv, 11-15, 20n, 23, 26-30, 33,
38n, 39, 41-2, 45, 47, 49, 56n,
68n, 105, 118-20, 123-4, 139
geometric mean 22

geometry 2, 3, 11n, 27, 28-30, 43, 45,
47, 49, 51, 136, 139, 177

Golden Measure 3, 16-17, 22

Golden Number 16, 49

Golden Proportion 16-18

Golden Ratio 3n, 4-6, 15-18, 19-23, 25,
42, 45-6, 47-51, 57n, 66n, 96-99,
111n, 116-18, 119n, 136-44, 174

Golden Rectangle 22n, 50, 51, 139, 141,
142, 143, 144

Gospel xv, 6n, 7, 20n, 25-6, 28-9, 33,
39, 41, 42, 82, 94, 115-26, 145,
156-7, 159, 175-6, 178, 181-2

government 58, 161, 170

activity xiii, 156
intervention xii, xiii
spending xiii

Great Depression 162

Greek 12-15, 26-8, 29, 36, 41-3, 45, 48-
9,51, 54, 56, 68, 115-16, 119,
125-6, 151n, 178, 179, 181-2,
183-4

Guna rajasic 14, 19n
Guna satewie 14n, 19
Guna tamasic 14, 19
Gurdjieff, George Ivanovitch xv-xvi,
121-2, 126, 127-8, 131-3, 135,
140-2, 175-6, 189-91
Beelzebubs Tales to His Grandson 8-
9, 103-9, 117n, 156, 187-8
burying the dog 103, 127
enneagram 68, 80, 89-90, 93-4, 116n
Law of Three 23
Law of Seven 58, 60, 159

205

--- PAGE 222 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Law of Vibration 103-113

halvings 54-5, 57-8, 107
harmonic ratios 63

harmonic structure to spiritual texts 11-
12

Hayes, Michael 56, 104n
Hebb, Donald 76, 134
heptad 117
Hermes 42, 45, 48
hidden vibration

Gann 93-101

Gurdjieff 105-113

St. Matthew 115-126
hierarchy 82-3

of cycles 87, 156

of power 22
Holy Spirit, The 15, 23, 36n, 42, 63n
Holy Trinity 23n, 42, 116
human heartbeat 123-5

Ichazo, Oschar 60
Ifo Institute 190
implicate order 178
industrial production

UK 153-4, 156

US 108, 112, 160-74, 193
information

absorption xii-xiii, 84, 112-13, 134,
145, 160

revolution 155

shock xi-xiv, 73-80, 87-8, 96-7, 100,
112-3, 122, 133-5, 139, 145, 147-8,
151, 155-7, 160-2, 165, 170, 172,
174

technology 108
Institute for Supply Management (ISM)
108

integrative tendency 83, 84-6

inter-cycle hiatus 163, 165-6, 168-9,
171, 172, 174, 193

206

Jesus xv, 23n, 32, 33, 36, 47, 51-2, 116-
8,125

Jonah 26-7, 41, 45-7, 51, 115-6, 118n,
119-121, 123, 125-6, 137
Jonah or Jonas 26-7, 121, 123, 137
Jonas 41-51, 118, 120, 139-40, 183
sign of the prophet xv, 7-8, 25-39,
94, 115-6, 125, 127

Keynesian economics xiii
Knickerbocker Trust collapse 162
Krausz, Robert 3n

Kuhn, Thomas 59n

Laszlo, Ervin 21
law cosmic 9, 60, 128, 174, 176
law of Octaves 6n
Law of Seven xvi, 6, 8, 56, 59-66, 70, 77,
80, 91, 93, 107, 117, 148, 156, 147, 175
and the enneagram 71-2
and the musical octave 63-6
Law of Three xvi, 4-6, 8, 19-24, 53, 55,
56, 68n, 91, 93, 96-8, 104, 116-8,
133, 135, 148, 151n, 157, 174,
176, 177

in Greek philosophy 42-5
and the enneagram 72-4
and the musical octave 58

Law of Vibration ix, xvi, 2-3, 6, 7, 8, 9n,
58, 62, 71, 73, 91, 101, 113, 117,
159, 165-6, 168, 174, 167, 177

Lawlor, Robert 16n, 22n

le Bon, Gustave 85n

Lea, Simcox 11

learning 13, 88, 94, 133-4, 145, 197
pattern 74-6, 152, 160

Lebergott, Stanley In

Levarie, Sigmund 63n

Levy, Ernst 63n

life cycle 62n, 85

Livio, Mario 6n, 15n

Lucas, Robert xiii

--- PAGE 223 of 225 ---

[OCR] Malkiel, Burton 101n
Mandelbrot, Benoit 89n
memory 76, 123

Michell, John 11n, 12n, 14-15, 20, 23,
105

Middle C 53-4, 63

Mills, Henry 75, 134

moon 12n, 13, 14n, 15, 62, 142
Moran, Jim 12n

Mouravieff, Boris 62n

Murchie, Guy 63

music 6

octave 53-8, 62-4, 67,71, 77, 117,
119n

Muth, John xii

Naranjo, Claudio 60n
neo-classical economics xiii
Neumann, Erich xiv, 84n
neuroscience xii

New Testament 12, 23n, 26
Nikkei Stock Average 123
Nott, Charles 60, 104n
number of fusion 20, 116

octave 53-8, 62-4, 67, 71,77, 117, 119n
octave ascending 54-5, 58, 148, 152
rations within 63-5, 66, 72,

octave de
153

octave descending 54, 58, 110

octave triple 56-7, 72, 152

oil embargo 112

Orage, Alfred 9n, 104n

Ouspensky, Pyotr 60, 68, 108, 159, 160

paradigm shift 59, 61n, 75, 162, 165,
178

pentad 116
pentagram 116
phi 15

INDEX

pi 29, 56

Pisces, astrological age of 36, 52, 178
precession 36n

Prechter, Robert 89n, 105n

price pulse 71, 86, 88-90, 94, 132, 151

prices xi, xiv, 2, 82, 85-90, 93, 94, 100,
111-13, 136-9, 144, 154, 171

psychology xiii, 2, 85, 91, 155

recession xi, xii, 153, 155-6, 165, 170-1,
190

revelation ix, xv, 27, 42-3, 45, 48-9, 116,
126, 128, 178

revolution xi, 76, 78, 83, 108, 145, 155

Schonfield, Hugh 12n, 36n
Second World War 162, 169
self-assertive tendency 83

self-organisation 21n, 62, 74, 83, 88,
177

self-organising systems 81-2
Shakespeare, W/
Shiller, Robert xiii
shock

energy gap xiii, 61-2, 65, 67, 72, 74,
76-9, 96, 106-7, 110-11, 119, 151-3,
160, 161

exogenous xii, 151n

information xi-xiv, 73-80, 87-8, 96-
7, 100, 112-3, 122, 133-5, 139, 145,
147-8, 151, 155-7, 160-2, 165, 170,
172, 174

Skidelsky, Robert xii
Smith, Russell 55n
solar system 64-6

square(s) 29-33, 36-7, 41, 43-4, 50-1,
96, 106-7, 119, 136-42, 183

magic 12-13
diagonal of 12, 32-3, 43, 50
of the Son of man 30, 183
perimeter of 29, 30n.

Sun 12-13

iam xi

207

--- PAGE 224 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

squaring price with time 51n, 136-7,
139, 144

St. Matthew xy, xvi, 6n, 7, 20n, 25-6, 27,
28, 32-5, 39, 41-2, 45-8, 51-2, 56,
82, 94, 101, 115-126, 127-8, 131-
2, 135, 137, 139-40, 145, 151,
155-7, 159, 168, 174-6, 178, 181,
183

string theory 60

Tao, The 19
Tarnas, Richard 2n
Taurus, astrological age of 36

time 15, 17, 23, 27, 28, 34, 41-2, 45-52,
56, 68, 70, 90, 113, 115, 117, 139, 141-
4, 162, 167, 177-8

and the number 666 38-9

and the Vesica Piscis 183-4

and vibration 62

squaring price with 136-7, 139
tonic sol-fa 6, 54-5, 57, 64, 73, 77, 79,

152

triangle 68, 69, 73, 77, 79, 133, 195
triangle equilateral 4-5, 43, 44,79
triangle isosceles 4-5

Ulansey, David 36n
US Treasury Notes 154

Vesica Piscis 35-6, 38-9, 41, 44-9, 51-2,
and time 183-4

vessel of the fish 35-6, 39, 41

vibration
hidden 93-101, 105-113, 115-126

Law of Vibration ix, xvi, 2-3, 6, 7, 8,
9n, 58, 62, 71, 73, 91, 101, 113, 117,
159, 165-6, 168, 174, 167, 177

pattern of vibration xvi, 52, 95, 103,
115, 127-45, 153, 160, 169, 173,
174, 176, 191

Vietnam War 156, 170
Volcker, Paul 171

208

von Dechend, Hertha 36

Walker, Kenneth 60, 61n, 68n

‘Wall Street Crash 1

wave principle 189n

Wellbeloved, Sophia xv, 94-5, 104-5

whale, belly of the 7n, 26-9, 34-5, 39,
41, 45-6, 116, 118, 183

Whitehead, Alfred North 62
Wilber, Ken 21n, 22n, 62n, 83n, 126n
Wilson, Colin 8n, 9n

yang 14
yin 14

Zeus 42, 45, 48
Zodiac 36, 51, 105, 119, 126n, 178

--- PAGE 225 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In The Law of Vibration Tony Plummer presents a new theory which he argues
is revealing of a fundamental truth about the deep-structure of the universe.
‘The Law is embodied in a very specific pattern of oscillation that accompanies
change and evolution. It can be found in fluctuations in stock markets and in
economic activity.

‘The research here suggests that the pattern was known about in antiquity
because it was buried in a short passage in St. Matthew's Gospel in the Bible.
It also suggests that it was known about in the early part of the 20th century
because it was concealed in the structure of books written by the renowned
stock market trader, William D. Gann, and by the mindfulness exponent,
George Gurdjieff. Both men chose to preserve their knowledge of the pattern
in a hidden form for some unknown future purpose.

Now, after 20 years of investigation, Tony Plummer tells the story of how the
pattern was originally hidden. Drawing on painstaking research on gematria,
the enneagram and financial market analysis, Plummer reveals the existence
of a behavioural pattern that may have profound implications for the way that
we view the world. Plummer’s work is elegantly structured and illustrated
throughout, It is an exciting and thought-provoking study for Gann enthusiasts,
and also for investors, economists and scientists who have an interest in the
laws that underpin systemic coherence and produce collective order.

Tony Plummer is the director of Helmsman Economics Ltd. He is a former
director of Hambros Bank Ltd, of Hambros Fund Management PLC, and of
Rhombus Research Ltd. He is a Fellow of the Society of Technical Analysts
in the UK, and was a Visiting Professorial Fellow in the Economics
Department at Queen Mary, University of London. He is the author of
Forecasting Financial Markets, which describes the influence of crowd
psychology on economic activity and financial market price behaviour.

Tony has worked and traded in financial markets since 1976, concentrating
primarily on bonds and currencies. He now specialises in strategic economic
and financial market analysis, and writes and lectures on group behaviour and
trading competencies.

meee
— os MAN

================================================================================
DOCUMENT: tunnelthruairorl00gann.pdf
Total Pages: 432
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 432 ---

[OCR] THE TUNNEL
ia THRU THE AIR
W.D.G. GANN

A

--- PAGE 2 of 432 ---

Please
handle this volume
with careo
The University of Connecticut
Libraries, Storrs
hbl, stx
PZ3G156TU
Tunnel thru, the
air;
SfTsa 007237 53
2
O
ON

--- PAGE 3 of 432 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 4 of 432 ---

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2013
http://archive.org/details/tunnelthruairorlOOgann

--- PAGE 5 of 432 ---

THE TUNML THEU THE All
or
momm back eeom luo
BY
W.
D. GANN
Author of " Truth of^ Stock Tape** and
*^Speculaiion a PtcJUdble Projetivm'*
FINANCIAL GUAKDIAN PUBLISHING CO.
80 Wall Street, New York:

--- PAGE 6 of 432 ---

Copvright, 1927
By W, D- GA>JN
All Rights Reserved
Includir.g thai of iransUiium into foreign lan{;uaoes,
rruKing pidi^res and drama
Frinied in the United States of Avxerica

--- PAGE 7 of 432 ---

DEDICATED
TO THE MEMORY OF MY MOTHER
SUSAN R. GANN
^s(i
AND
N(i
TO AN OLD SCHOOLMATE IN TEXAS
%
MY NATIVE STATE

--- PAGE 8 of 432 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 9 of 432 ---

FOREWORD
"Happy
is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that
getteth understanding."
Proverbs.
A
BOOK,
to be worth reading, must do more than
amuse and
interest.
It must be
instructive
to
be of real value to the reader.
This book has a three-
fold purpose
:
First,
It
is an interesting romance.
Second,
It
teaches
a moral
lesson and
proves
the
natural laws laid down in the Bible.
Third, It shows the value of science, foreknowledge
and preparedness.
It has been well said that truth
is stranger than
fic-
tion.
This story is founded on facts and events, many
of which have happened or will happen in the future.
The "Tunnel Thru the Air''
is mysterious and con-
tains
a
valuable
secret,
clothed
in
veiled
language.
Some will find it the first time they read
it, others will
see
it in the second reading, but the greatest number
will find the hidden secret when they read
it the third
time.
You will read it the first time because you are inter-
ested in the love story and for amusement.
This will
create a desire to read
it a second time for instruction
and knowledge.
The second reading will unfold some
of the hidden meanings and you will gain knowledge
thru
understanding which
will
stimulate
an
incent-

--- PAGE 10 of 432 ---

FOREWORD
ive to put knowledge gained into action.
You will read
it the third time because you want to make your dreams
and ideals become real and find how to start knowledge
into action.
When you read it the third time, a new light will dawn.
You will find the hidden secret, the veiled meaning and
will understand why the Bible says, '^Seek and ye shall
find, knock and
it
shall be opened unto you."
You
will want to understand more about the Bible.
Then
read the Bible three times and you will know w^hy it is
the greatest book ever written.
It contains the key to
the process by which you may know all there is to know
and get
all that you need to supply your demands and
desires.
You will appreciate why Solomon said, "Wis-
dom
is the principal thing: therefore get wisdom and
with
all thy getting, get understanding.''
The future
will become an open book.
You will know that by fol-
lowing the laws laid down in the Bible, man's last great
enemy,
Death,
will be overcome and will understand
why Jesus
rose on
the
third day and
rested on
the
seventh day.
Robert Gordon's seven days will no longer
be
a
mystery
because you
will
have
gained
under-
standing.
I believe this book will prove interesting and valuable
to men and women in
all walks of
life.
If
it
does,
you will be thankful to the power that guided my hand
in showing you the way to eternal Truth.
My object
will have been accomplished and I will have my reward.
W. D. Gani^.
May
9, 1927.

--- PAGE 11 of 432 ---

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTEK I
IN^
the extreme northeastern comer of the Lone Star
State of Texas, about eight miles west
of Texar-
kana, in a lonely farm-house on Sunday morning, June
10th,
Amelia
Gordon
turned
over
in
her
bed
and
watched the
sunlight
streaming thru
the window on
the head of her new-bom son.
She had always hoped
that this, her third son, would be bom on Sunday, but
he was born late Saturday night, June 9th,
1906.
A
few months before his
birth,
his mother had suffered
a severe shock on account of the death of her oldest son
in the San Francisco earthquake in April, and for a
time
it was feared that her third son might never be
born to
live.
She was happy
this Sunday morning
when she looked
at her bouncing baby boy, dreamed
of his future, and thought of what his name should be.
Calvin Gordon, the baby's father, had been a Captain
in the U.
S. Army in Spain.
He had won distinction
for his cool courage and daring nerve, and after the close
of the Spanish-American war, moved from Tennessee
to Texas.
Capt. Gordon had been very much depressed
after the
loss
of his eldest son in the San Erancisco
earthquake, and was very much cheered up at the birth
of this boy, and hoped that the youngest son might ful-
fill the ambitions he had for his first born.

--- PAGE 12 of 432 ---

2
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
It had always been the custom of Calvin and Amelia
Gordon to go to the little country church every Sunday
morning, but this morning Capt. Gordon remained with
his wife
so that they could
talk over the naming of
their son.
Capt. Gordon suggested the name ^'Robert,"
which was the name of his father, and his wife quickly
acquiesced, so the baby was named Robert.
Amelia Gordon was a great Bible student, and had
always hoped that she would have a son born who would
be a preacher, so she thought that
little Robert might
fulfill her hopes and ambitions.
Capt. Gordon was a farmer, growing mostly cotton
crops on the Red River bottom lands.
The following
year, 1907, after the birth of little Robert, Capt. Gor-
don's
crops were almost a
failure.
The Spring was
late and overflows damaged cotton.
This, together with
unfavorable financial conditions, caused a panic in the
United States in the Fall of 1907.
Thus the first year
of the boy's life started under unfavorable conditions.
When Robert was
a
little over two years
old,
his
mother gave birth to a girl, the
first born to her, but
still she showed great interest in Robert
; talked much
of his future and took great interest in teaching him to
live according to the Bible.
At about the age of ^yo, his mother began to teach
him the alphabet.
He learned very quickly how to read
and write, before he started to school.
He was always
willing
and
glad
to go
to Sunday
School
with
his
mother, took a great interest in the sermon, and what
the Sunday School teacher had to say about the creation
of the world, and about God's great plan.

--- PAGE 13 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
S
Little Robert went to church one day and the preacher
took his text from 1 Thes. 4:16-18, ''For the Lord him-
self shall descend from Heaven with a shout, with the
voice of the archangel and with the trump of God ; and
the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then we which are
alive and remain, shall be caught up together with them
in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air : and so shall
we ever be with the Lord.
Wherefore comfort one an-
other with these words."
Robert was very much interested in this sermon, and
asked his mother to explain how the Lord could descend
from Heaven and what kind of vehicle we would ride
in if we were caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord
in the air.
His mind puzzled over this for weeks and
months, and he was anxious to understand more about
it.
He said, "Mother, I should like to meet the Lord
in the air."
His mother said, "You will be able to do so some
day, Bobbie."
When in Sunday School one day, the teacher read
from 2 Thes. 1 :7-8, "And to you who are troubled rest
with us; when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from
Heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire taking
vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey
not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ."
The preacher
said that the Lord had placed the rainbow in the sky
as a testimony that he would never again destroy the
world by water, but explained that God would come
again in a flame of
fire and thus take vengeance on
those who did not believe and destroy the world by fire.
Robert wanted to know if the good Lord who loves us

--- PAGE 14 of 432 ---

4
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
so much would destroy
tlie world and
all of those
in
it.
His mother explained that God would destroy those
that were sinners and rebelled against him and had not
accepted his word.
Bobbie was in Sunday School again and heard them
read from 1 Tim. 2:11-14:
"Let the woman learn in
silence with all subjection.
But I suffer not a woman
to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to
be in silence.
For Adam was first formed, then Eve.
And Adam was
not
deceived;
but
the woman being
deceived, was
in
the
transgression."
He
asked
the
Sunday School teacher to explain what this meant,—^by
learning in silence and subjection.
He also wanted an
explanation of the statement that a woman should not
teach, because he said that his mother had always taught
him and loved him, and his father had paid no atten-
tion to him and had no desire to teach him.
He wanted
to know if
it was wrong for his mother to teach him,
and if God would punish her.
The teacher replied that
the Lord said, "Suffer the little children to come unto
me, and forbid them not, for of such
is the Kingdom
of God."
She explained that his mother set an example
more by her love and devotion than by words; that a
mother's actions would influence a child more than any-
thing
she
could
say,
and
this
was
the
great
silent
teaching.
Robert often visited the colored mammies on the plan*
tation and listened to the ghost stories they told, and the
fear was created in his mind of the spirits that walked
in the
night.
He was
often afraid
that
the
goblins
would get him if he didn't watch out.
One Sunday at

--- PAGE 15 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
5
church, th^ preacher took for his text Gen.
1:7,
"'Fov
God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power
and of love and of a sound mind."
When Robert heard
this, he wanted to know how it was that we should fear
things,
if God had not given us the spirit of fear nor
created the spirit of fear in us, but gave us a spirit of
power and
of love and
of sound mind.
His mother
explained to him that the ghost and the fear of the dark
\which the old darkies told him about, were nothing but
superstition, and he should banish
it from his mind.
A few Sundays later, the minister took his text from
2 Tim. 3 :1, ^^This know also, that in the last days peril-
ous times
shall
come.'^
Robert was anxious to know
when the last days would come.
His mother told him
it would be at the time of the end of the world and God
would again come to destroy the world by fire.
The minister continued to read from 2 Tim.
3:15,
"And that from a child thou hast known the holy scrip-
tures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation
through faith which
is in Christ Jesus."
Robert was
desirous of knowing if children could teach more about
the scriptures than grown people.
His mother told him
that the Bible
said, "A
little child
shall lead them,"
and that anyone who would harm
little children, can
in no wise enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.

--- PAGE 16 of 432 ---

6
THE TUNNEL THRU THE
A IB
CHAPTER II
IN"
1913,
Robert
suffered
a
severe
illness
in
the
Spring, and for a few months his life was despaired
of, but he quickly recovered.
Soon after his recovery,
his father took him on a fishing trip to Spirit Lakc\
The old darky of slavery days went along, and whjic
he was putting worms on Robert's hook, told the stc
;
about this lake and why
it was named "Spirit Lake.
The old darky said that the spirit of a beautiful lady
walked on the waters of the lake at night and that w.is
why they called
it Spirit Lake.
Long,
long years
ago,
the
daughter
of
a
wealtliy
planter fell in love with a poor but honest boy and after
many years of
courtship,
in which they spent many
moonlight nights rowing on the beautiful lake, the time
came when they felt that they could no longer be sepa-
rated.
The young man pleaded with her father to
cr.i-
sent to their marriage, but he stubbornly refused
aji
;
threatened to kill the young man
if he ever called at
his home again.
They then planned to elope one niglt-
and as her sweetheart was placing a ladder under the
window and helping her to get down, her father shot
her lover and killed him.
When she found that he was
dead, she ran to the lake and drowned herself.
They
searched for days for her body and one moonlight nigbi
they saw her walking on the water.
They rowed
c
'i

--- PAGE 17 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
7
on
tlie lake and found her body floating on the water.
He said that the fish would always bite better at full
moon, but the darkies were afraid to fish there because
the
spirit of this beautiful young lady walked on the
water.
Bobbie came home very much interested and excited
^nd told his mother
all about the
fish they caught at
Spirit Lake and about the story old Moses told him
about the
spirit walking on the water.
He told
his
mother that the Sunday School teacher had read in the
Bible where Christ walked on the water, and he wanted
her to explain how this could happen.
She told him
that all of those things happened in the days of miracles
which had passed and no longer happened in these days.
Bobbie had a great
desire
to walk or ride upon the
water, and was enthusiastic about
bicycles.
He told
his mother that he intended to build a bicycle some day
that he could ride on the water.
In
1914, when war broke
out,
Capt. Gordon, who
had once served in the Spanish-American War, became
very much interested in the conflict and followed it very
closely, reading the papers daily and talking about
it.
Robert soon began to take great interest in the war and
asked his father and mother many questions about the
foreign countries which were involved in the great strug-
gle.
He would
sit for hours,
listening to his mother
read the Bible, from the Book of Revelation, the prophe-
cies of the Great War, where
it says that nation shall
rise against nation.
Robert's mother told him of his grandfather who dis-
tinguished himself in the Civil War, and the great hard-

--- PAGE 18 of 432 ---

8
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
ships
her
mother
had
to
go
thru
during
the
war
days; how her great-grandfather fought in the War of
1812.
She talked of his grandfather, Colonel Robert
Gordon, for whom he was named, and how he became
famous during the Civil War, and how later Robert's
own father went with Colonel Roosevelt and became a
Captain in the Spanish-American War in 1898.
Rob-
ert's
oldest
brother, Herbert, was born
in
1894, and
his second brother, Ralph, was born in 1898
after his
father went to the war.
His mother spent many anxious
months and worried with the children while Capt. Gor-
don was away at war.
She prayed that war would be
ended for all time.
She
said,
"Bobbie, you come from a generation of
fighters on both
sides, but I hope that you will be a
minister and preach
against war.
While
the
tragic
death of your brother Herbert in San Francisco was
a shock that I have never fully recovered from, yet I
had rather know that he went that way than to have
him go to war and lose his life.
I remember well the
many
sleepless
nights that I have passed thru while
your father was away
at war and how happy I was
when he returned.
I prayed to God then that war might
be ended and that none of my sons would ever have to
go to war."
"Mother," said Bobbie, "when I get to be a man, I
will be a preacher and tell the people to be peaceful and
stop fighting, but why doesn't God stop the war ?"
"My son, war
is the work of the devil, not of God,
and the Bible tells us that the old dragon has to be loosed
for a
little season, but in the Book of Revelation, we

--- PAGE 19 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
9
read that Satan is bound for a thousand years.
I hope
I live to see that day and I feel sure you will. A few
nights before you were bom I had a very strange dream.
I thought I saw San Francisco and Los Angeles
de-
stroyed
in two days by some war machine, and
that
one of my sons came near losing his life there, but was
saved and afterwards he saved his country and made
peace with the world.
I suppose I dreamed about San
Francisco because Herbert lost his life there but, some-
how, I
feel that
it was more than a dream, and that
you are bom to be a peacemaker."
Bobbie
was
greatly
impressed
with
his
mother's
dream and her hopes and ambitions for him, but his
brother would quarrel and try to fight with him.
Bob-
bie would tell him that Dad wanted him to be peaceful
and that
his mother wanted him to be a peacemaker
and that he would not
fight.
Llis brother called him
^^Cottonhead" because his hair was so white, and accused
him of being a white-livered coward, but Bobbie was
patient and did not lose his temper.
His mother would
commend him for this and tell him that the Bible said
to control your temper and not let your angry passions
rise.
About this time some of the prejudice which
little
Robert had inherited from his grandfather and from his
father, began
to show
forth.
Unfavorable
conditions
thruout the country and the low price of cotton
left
Capt. Gordon
practically
penniless,
causing him and
all
of his children
to labor hard
in order to support
themselves.
He tried to force young Robert to work in
the fields and help cultivate the cotton, but he stubbornly

--- PAGE 20 of 432 ---

10
THE TUNNEL THRU THE Am
rebelled.
He would play around the
house, use
his
father's tools and talk about the great inventions that
he was going
to make.
His mother was
always
in
sympathy with Eobert and tried to encourage him, but
she could never get him to take an interest in working
on a farm.
He talked of being a preacher, talked of
great inventions and
discoveries, but would not work
at hard labor.
In 1917, when the United States entered the World
War, young Robert was eleven years old.
He had great
ambitions to join the Army and go to the war.
His
older brother Ralph joined the Army.
Young Robert
said that
if he could not go and fight for his country
he would stay
at home and work on a patent which
would help them to win the war.
He did not agree or
get along with his older brother and was glad when he
had gone away to war.
His parents were still in poor
circumstances but they could not induce young Robert
to do any work on the farm.
He continued to tinker
around and work with his father's tools, trying to make
a bicycle which he could ride upon the water in the
lake nearby.
He tried various kinds of lumber to build
wheels for the bicycle but none of them worked success-
fully.
Finally his mother suggested that he use thin
cedar boards because cedar was durable in the water,
was light and would float easily.
He finally succeeded
in building the wheels out of cedar and after heating
pine rosin hot and pouring
it into the cracks, he was
able to ride successfully across the lake, but in a short
time the wheels sprung a leak and the bicycle sunk with

--- PAGE 21 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
11
him in the lake, hut he swam out and brought the bicycle
with him.
Bobbie was not the kind to be discouraged by obstacles
and later his ingenuity overcame the difficulties.
After
trying to put inner tubes from bicycle tires on the in-
side of the wheels of his water bicycle and failing again,
he finally got some inner tubes from an automobile and
placed them inside his wooden wheels and pumped them
up.
When they were filled with air, they pushed against
the wooden sides of the wheel, buoying up the wheel, and
he was then
able to ride his bicycle around over the
lake without any trouble.
His mother was very proud of him and said ^^Bobbie,
one day your dream of becoming a great inventor will
he
realized.
You have
not been wasting your time
tinkering around with your father's tools trying to make
things."
His
brother,
Ralph,
continued
to
call him
"Fool Bobbie" and ^'Mother's dream";
said he would
never amount to anything because he wouldn't work on
the farm like the rest of them.
Bobbie always found
a willing listener in his mother.
She helped him with
his studies in school and encouraged him in every way
and showed that she believed in him and had faith that
one day he would be a great man.
This encouraged him
to do greater things.
The success with the water bicycle had kindled his
ambition and created a desire to complete other inven-
tions that he had in mind.
He told his mother of a
dream he had of a white-winged bird that flew across
the ocean thru the
air;
that he was riding the bird

--- PAGE 22 of 432 ---

12
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
and that he received a great triumph and reception when
he visited the foreign countries, and how his own people
received him in great glory when he returned.
His
father
called
these
stories
"pipe
dreams,"
but
his
mother took great interest in them and always encour-
aged him.
Robert talked very
little to his father or
brother but always went to his mother and talked over
things and confided in her.
She encouraged him be-
cause she
felt
that he was an answer to her prayer,
after
her
eldest
son
had
died,—that
God
might
give her another son who would live and that she might
have her
desires and hopes realized which were
lost
thru the death of her eldest son.
Robert was entirely strange and different from other
boys.
He never seemed to want to play with them, but
kept very much by himself ; talked along different lines,
and made a confidant of his mother only.
She seemed
to understand him as no one else did and he always
came to her for an explanation of his problems, and for
consolation in time of trouble.
Robert's mother ofter talked to Capt. Gordon about
him—^told him that he was a peculiar and most unusual
child and that she thought that his refusal to work at
manual labor was not because he was lazy but because
she believed that he had a superior mind, and that
if
properly educated and trained, he would become a great
man some day, an honor to his parents.
She told him
that Bobbie had advanced ideas fully a hundred years
ahead of his time and that he should be educated and
allowed to follow his own
ideas.
His
father,
failing
to understand him, agreed with his mother and decided

--- PAGE 23 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
13
when Robert was about thirteen years of age, that there
was no use trying to keep him on the farm, but that
he should be sent away to Texarkana to school, to learn
something and to become interested in the things along
which his mind seemed to lead.
While in this school he met his
first real boy chum,
one who seemed to understand him and one who proved
to be a help to him in
school.
Walter Kennelworth
was the son of a wealthy lumberman.
He had every
advantage that money could bring and was far advanced
in his studies, thus being able to render help to Robert,
who had no interest in grammar but took a great interest
in history and mathematics.
Walter would help him
with his work in grammar and geography.
They be-
came fast friends.
Robert told Walter of his plans for
the future ; that he hoped to be a great inventor
; wanted
to get an education and travel around the world to see
the
country and
learn
about
things and
develop the
ideas which he thought would help his country in time
of war.
He had heard so many stories about his grand-
father's adventures in the Civil War and his
father's
experiences in the Spanish-American War that he had
the desire to be a great soldier and serve his country.
He spent nearly all of his time reading the newspapers
and following the progress
of the war.
He was
ex-
tremely interested in the victories of our boys overseas,
and when they began to turn the tide against the Ger-
mans, he was greatly elated and told his mother that he
knew that the Stars and Stripes would never trail the
dust and that victory was sure as soon as the American
boys went on the other side.

--- PAGE 24 of 432 ---

14
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Walter Kennelworth also had ambitions of becoming
a soldier and of making new discoveries and inventions
along chemical
lines.
His hopes and aspirations were
to one day become a great chemist.
The vast difference
in the environment and conditions under which these
two boys had been brought up seemed to make no
dif-
ference in their friendship.
It ripened
as the years
went by.
Robert and Walter were often together and
Walter often invited Robert to his father's home.
Wal-
ter's father and mother became very fond of Robert.
When the armistice came in 1918, Robert talked with
his mother and
father,
asking them
if that would be
the last war.
They, of course, expressed the hope that
it would be, and Robert said that he had read the Bible
and thought that the greatest war in history was yet to
come.
He began to express ideas about new inventions,
years ahead of the times.
He begged his father and
mother to
let him leave school and go
to work in an
automobile factory where he could learn about machin-
ery and understand how
to
complete
the
inventions
which he was always talking about.
School was over in the Summer of
1919, and Mr.
J. H. Kennelworth, Walter's father,
offered Robert a
position in his office during the summer months.
After
business, Walter and Robert would often go out auto-
mobile riding.
Along in July, he met with a serious
accident.
The automobile was overturned and Robert's
arm was broken, and he suffered internal injuries.
He
was taken to the hospital where he lay for several weeks
before recovery.
His mother was very much worried
and alarmed over this accident, and thought
it was best

--- PAGE 25 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
15
for Bobbie to return to the farm and not work in the
city any more.
His brother Ralph had
just returned from France,
where he had met with many obstacles in the war but
had received no serious injury.
Robert went home for
a rest after the accident.
He had many disagreements
and fights with his older brother, and
it seemed to be
impossible to get along.
All of the trouble occurred over
the fact that Robert would not work on the farm, or
help his brother.
Bobbie prevailed upon his mother to let him go back
to school in the Fall because he was making great prog-
ress and hoped to have a big position some day with
Mr. Kennelworth's firm.
In the Fall of 1919, he returned to school, but made
slow progress in his studies.
His health w^as not good
;
he seemed unable to concentrate or make much progress.
He barely passed
his examinations
at the end
of the
year, but continued to study hard and make progress in
mathematics and
history.
In grammar,
writing and
geography he was always falling below his marks, and
Walter Kennelworth had to help him out.
Fn the Spring of 1920, just before the close of school,
Robert's father obtained
help
to
cultivate the
cotton
plantation.
He thought it best that Robert should come
home that summer and help to work on the farm, but
again the boy refused, and met with stubborn opposition
and abuse from his brother, who called him
^^the fool
inventor" and said that he would never amount to any-
thing because he refused to work on the farm.
He said
that he wanted
to be '^Gentleman Robert," and called

--- PAGE 26 of 432 ---

16
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
him the "white-collar boy."
These disagreements and
disputes with his brother were very annoying and dis-
appointing to Robert's mother, because she wanted the
children to get along in peace.
Robert told his mother
that on account of his brother he w^ould never live
at
home again; that he would continue to stay in Texar-
kana and go to school until he had finished his educa-
tion, and then he would go to work for Mr. Kennel-
worth.
His mother had great faith in him and told him
that she knew everything would come out
all right for
him, and that he should study hard, make the most of
his
opportunities,
and prepare
for
the
position Mr.
Kennelworth was going to give him upon completing
his studies.
Capt. Gordon had been very
successful during the
war growing
cotton.
Prices had gone very high and
he had accumulated quite a little money.
But in 1920
cotton prices
declined rapidly and
his cotton brought
very
little, which again reduced them to poor circum-
stances.
Robert became very
ill again from malaria
during the Spring and Summer of 1920, so that he was
unable to w^ork even if he wanted to.
Up to this time
he had shown no ambition for any kind of work, except
to try to make something with his father's tools; talk
about inventions and some of the great things he was
going to do in the years to come.
His mother had
al-
ways
petted him because
of
his
severe
illnesses and
accident, and his father often referred to him
as his
mother's burden or his mother's problem.
But she had
great faith in young Robert because he clung so strongly
to religion, believing in the Bible.
Robert would spend

--- PAGE 27 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
17
days and hours reading the Bible and talking to his
mother and asking her questions about it and its mean-
ing.
He had a great desire to travel and see the world
and was always planning to visit strange places.
While
he showed great affection for his mother, his desire was
to get away and see the world.

--- PAGE 28 of 432 ---

18
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER III
I
IN the Spring of 1921, Robert began to make greater
progress
in
his
studies, which greatly encouraged
his chum,
Walter
Kennelworth. Robert would
study
and read early and
late.
Walter would often
call on
him in his room and find him there deeply engrossed
reading the Bible and puzzling over the interpretation
of the meaning of many parts of the Scriptures.
One Sunday in the early part of June, Robert and
Walter went to church and the minister took for his
text
1
Cor.
13:2,
''And though
I
have
the
gift
of
prophecy, and understand
all mysteries, and
all knowl-
edge ; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove
mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing."
Then
the
minister
read from
the
7th
verse,
"Beareth
all
things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth
all
things,'' and again from the 11th verse, ''When I
was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child,
I thought as a child ; but when I became a man, I put
away childish things."
The minister further read from
the 13th verse, "And now abideth faith, hope, love, these
three;
but
the
greatest
of these
is
love."
Again he
read from 2 Cor.
5 :7, "For we walk by faith, not by
sight," and concluded the reading of the text from Gal.
5 :14, "For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in
this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."

--- PAGE 29 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
19
The
minister
preached
a
great
sermon.
Robert
thought
it one of the best he had ever heard and one
which impressed him the most.
The minister talked
about the great work of faith and said that faith without
works is dead ; but that there could be no faith without
love because love was the greatest of
all things.
That
God was
love, and that love was the fulfilling of the
law, "For God so loved the world that he gave his only
begotten son that whomsoever believeth on Him might
not perish, but have everlasting life."
He added that
God loves children who honor and obey their parents,
wives who love and obey their husbands, husbands who
love and protect their wives, and admonished each man
to love his neighbor as himself.
Because love is the law
of harmony, and the power that created the universe,
it
is the only power that can prevent destruction, war
and human death, but with true love we can overcome
the last great enemy, death.
When men love each other as God loves them, there
will be no longer any
strife or contention.
Man will
no longer covet what belongs to his neighbor.
True love
will deal justly and do unto others as we wish to have
them do unto us.
He preached about the ambitions, the
love of country and patriotism which inspires men to go
to battle and give their lives for the protection of their
home and country.
He said, "Greater love hath no man
than this, that he lay down his life for his friend,'' and
that a great reward was sure to come to those who love
and obey God.
He talked of God's great command, "If
you love me, keep my commandments."
This sermon stirred Robert's ambition as nothing else

--- PAGE 30 of 432 ---

20
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
had ever done before.
It made him
realize the
love
that he owed to his mother, whose great faith and love
had helped to lay the foundation for his future career.
He thought about what the preacher said—that a man
deserts father and mother to cleave unto his wife, and
that this was as
it should be.
He had always felt his
greatest love for his mother, but now for the first time
in his life he began to think of love for another woman.
His mind turned toward the many beautiful
girls
that he used to meet in Sunday School and those who
were in his class.
Robert's chum, Walter, had already
had a puppy love affair in school with a
girl by the
name
of
Caroline
Oglethorpe.
Robert
had
laughed
at Walter about this and thought it was all foolishness.
But now he began to think that maybe there was some-
thing more to love than what he had heretofore believed
it
to
be.
Walter Kennelworth's family being one of
the most wealthy and prominent
in Texarkana,
they
were at all the social functions, at which Robert met all
the younger set in the
city.
A few weeks
after the minister had preached
this
sermon on charity and love, Robert was in church one
morning, and
after Sunday
School, was talking with
Caroline Oglethorpe, and with her was her chum, Marie
Stanton.
Walter introduced Robert to Marie.
Marie
was the daughter of a wealthy and prominent family.
Her father,
Colonel
Stanton, had made a fortune
in
building railroads.
He was now a big lumberman, and
one of the most prominent in Texarkana.
Marie was
a beautiful young girl of about thirteen years of age
when Robert met her.
She was of the true brunette

--- PAGE 31 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
n
type, with glossy black hair and dark eyes that sparkled
like diamonds.
About this time, Robert began to read novels and love
stories and became very much interested
in them,
al-
ways taking strong sides with the hero and becoming
very much
agitated
and
aroused
against the
villain.
He saw Marie frequently after this, as she attended the
same school
as Robert and Walter.
Every time that
Robert saw Marie, she looked more beautiful to him.
Robert soon began to lose sleep thinking about Marie,
and
realized
that
love was the
greatest thing
in the
world.
He confided his secret to his friend, Walter.
Being very bashful, he had never said anything about
his love to Marie.
Finally he made up his mind one
night that he would write her about
it, so this is what
he wrote:
Wednesday Eve.
Dear Marie,
You
probably remember
several
weeks
ago, when
I
was
introduced
to you
in
church,
the sermon
that
the
minister
preached and his text from St= Paul where he said, "The great-
est thing in the world
is love."
I agree with
St. Paul; that
is why I am writing to you.
I liked you the
first time I met you, and every time I have
seen you
since, I have liked you more.
Now that I know I
love you so much,
I
feel that I must
tell you.
I hope that
you
are going to
love me some
day.
Your friend,
Robert.
Marie replied to the letter as follows:
Dear Robert,
I received your nice note.
This
is the first time that anyone
has ever written to me about love and I am all excited over
it.

--- PAGE 32 of 432 ---

22
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
I never thought that you liked me, Bobbie.
I always thought
that you were making eyes at Kitty Anderson
in
school.
I
do like you and think that you are a nice boy.
Yours,
Marie.
When Robert read the
last
line, he
felt
his
heart
jump right up in his throat.
His hopes and ambitions
soared higher than they had ever
before.
He began
to dream of the future with Marie
as
his wife.
He
talked of his plans to Walter, and his hope of being a
great inventor some day and making a
lot
of money
so that he could marry a wealthy girl like Marie.
The following Sunday, he went home to the country
to see his mother, and told her the story of the new love
affair.
"Bobbie," said his mother, ^^you are little over
fifteen years old, and this
is only puppy love, or what
they call school-boy and school-girl
love.
It will soon
pass away, but there is no harm in
it.
Love is a great
thing and some day you will meet the right
girl, but
there is no use being in any hurry about it."
Bobbie told his mother that Marie was the only girl
in the world for him, and that he would live and work
for
her;
that
if he
couldn't marry Marie
he
never
wanted any other girl.
His mother laughed at this and
told him that they
all thought that way over the
first
love affair, but that after a while, as the years went by
and he met the real one, this would all pass away.
How-
ever, she did
tell Bobbie that she had never forgotten
her first love, as there
is something different about the
first love, even tho
it doesn't last.

--- PAGE 33 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
23
"Stick
to your
studies/'
said
she,
^'and do
not
let
your love for Marie interfere with your progress.
''
She saw that
this
love was
a great
stimulator
for
Robert and that his ambitions were greater than ever.
He told his mother that he was going to Sunday School
every Sunday and that he was studying hard, reading
the Bible and learning a lot, and that he was preparing
to be a great man.
His mother said, "Bobbie, I have
always had great faith in you, and I know that one
day my dream will come true, and you will do something
that will make me very proud of you.''
In June,
1921, Robert Gordon and Walter Kennel-
worth were
in
the
graduating
class.
Altho Walter
was one year younger than Robert, his early advantages
enabled him to graduate at fourteen, while Robert was
graduating
at the age of
fifteen, and would not have
been able to pass
all of his examinations except for the
help and
assistance rendered him by Walter.
Marie
Stanton, who was then thirteen years of age, graduated
the following year.
After Robert graduated, he at first deciaed to secure
a position and go
to work, but
after
consulting with
Walter, he decided that
it would be best to enter High
School and
get thru
as soon
as
possible.
So
in the
Fall of 1921, he and Walter began High School.
Here
is where his greatest work began to show forth.
He took
a
great
interest
in
physics and
higher
mathematics,
studied day and night, making very high marks in these
studies.
Also
took
an
interest
in
chemistry,
which
Walter was
specializing
in,
because he knew
that
it

--- PAGE 34 of 432 ---

M
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
would be useful to him with his
invention, which he
was still talking so much about, and his plans.
The time passed by
quickly and
in
1924
Robert
Gordon and Walter Kennelworth graduated from High
School in Texarkana with high honors.
In the mean-
time,
the
love
affair between Robert and Marie had
continued with the usual
interruptions,
obstacles and
petty quarrels existing between young people of their
age.
In the Fall of 1924, it was finally decided that Walter
should go to Columbia College in New York to begin
his course.
Robert's parents were unable to finance him
through College, and
it was decided that he should go
to work for Mr. Kennelworth in his office.
Robert hated
to part with his old friend, Walter, but they thought
it
was for the best and talked of the future in New York,
hoping that one day Robert could join Walter there.
In the following year, 1925, Marie Stanton graduated
from High School with the highest of honors.
Robert
was at the graduation exercises and thought that Marie
had grown more beautiful every year, and was anxious
for the day to come when he could claim her for his
wife.
Soon
after her graduation from High
School,
there was much talk about the College Marie should
enter.
Her father and mother finally decided that she
should go to the Kidd-Key College at Sherman, Texas,
as
this was nearby and Marie
could go home
occa-
sionally.
As the time neared for Marie to go away, Robert be-
came more anxious.
He thought Marie would
fall in
love with someone else.
He talked with her about the

--- PAGE 35 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
25
future, and for the
first time, spoke of marriage.
He
talked to her of the difference in their station in
life,
and said that his mother thought that a marriage be-
tween a wealthy
girl and boy
of poor circumstances
could never result in harmony and happiness.
He told
Marie the story that the old darky had related on the
fishing trip, about the love affair between the poor coun-
try boy and the wealthy planter's daughter, and their
tragic
death.
Marie thought her father would never
consent to their marriage, but she said she really loved
Robert and when the time came, she would elope with
him
if
necessary.
This
greatly
cheered Robert
and
made it easier for him after Marie went away to College.
Love letters passed between them during the first year
she was at college, and
all went well.
Robert worked
hard in his new position in Mr. Kennelworth's
office.
He was a willing worker, an expert stenographer and
secretary.
Robert continued to show expert mechanical
ability and could fix anything that was wrong with an
automobile.
Walter corresponded often with Robert and also wrote
to
his
father
asking how
Robert was
getting
along.
Mr. Kennelworth replied that Robert was making great
progress, that he was a very brilliant boy and he was
going to help him
all he could for he thought Robert
had a great future.
1926 was to be one of the most eventful years in the
life of Robert Gordon.
In the Spring his father died
suddenly, and after a consultation with his mother,
it
was decided that he should leave his
position, return
to the farm and help them to get things straightened

--- PAGE 36 of 432 ---

26
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
out.
He encountered the usual obstacles and opposition
from his brother, because he knew nothing about farm-
ing and of course did not like
it.
The result was that
he put all of his savings into helping to make the crop.
While
it turned out to be a good crop, the low prices
of cotton in the Fall of 1926 left them in debt.
While on the farm, he contracted malaria fever and
a severe spell of illness followed, during which time he
received many
consoling
letters
from
Marie.
Soon
after he was
able
to return
to
his position with Mr.
Kennelworth, he met with another
severe automobile
accident, this time breaking his right arm.
This neces-
sitated six weeks in the hospital before he was able to
return
to work
again.
One disappointment
followed
another, but Robert had learned to practice
patience.
He read the Bible, especially the story of Job, continued
to go to church, and while he was suffering many trials
and
tribulations, his mind was expanding.
He could
not accept the theory preached and taught by preachers,
because
he knew
that
the
things
they
taught
were
wrong.
Marie returned home for her vacation.
She was now
eighteen years old, and had grown more beautiful and
began
to
attract more
attention from young men. As
the Kennelworths and
Stantons had been friends for
years, Walter suggested to his parents that they give a
party in honor of Marie Stanton.
A young man by the
name
of Edward Mason,
the son of
a very wealthy
northern family, was there, and showed marked
atten-
tion to Marie.
Robert became very jealous and after
the party had a quarrel with her.
Then followed long

--- PAGE 37 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
27
weeks of agony.
Many letters passed between Robert
and Marie.
When the end of August drew near and Robert knew
that Marie was to return to school soon, he was anxious
to make up before she went away and wrote the follow-
ing letter:
Dearest Marie,
I am very sad.
I
feel the reason you refuse to make up
with me
is because you
are
in love with Edward Mason.
I
have never loved anyone but you and never
will.
If we are
not reconciled before you go back to
school, I fear we never
will
be.
I am sending you two poems, "Parting" and "Yes-
terday," which express how I
feel.
Sorrowfully,
Robert.
PARTING
Kiss me !
The spell is broken,
The dream we dreamed is gone;
Nothing remains but memory
Memory, and dawn.
Kiss me!—and
then
your
hand,
dear,
Do you not feel the beat.
The rhythm of our pulses?
It does not spell defeat.
It spells the song that life sings,
The message of the heart
Pathways meet but to widen
And lips meet but to part.

--- PAGE 38 of 432 ---

£8
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
YESTERDAY
Dreams—just dreams
of yesterday,
When
love
to me was sweet,
Romance has now gone astray.
No other love
will
I
greet.
It was
short—my
little romance,
Short—but God—how good!
Went along as smooth as a dance,
Part us?
It seemed no one could.
But someone
did—tho' I forgive.
He loved her
as did
I,
For
her
only—did
I
live,
And now—for her I'd die
!
When Marie received the letter, she replied:
Dear Robert,
Your
letter and poems
received.
You
are again accusing
me wrongfully.
You are
all in the wrong and until you can
see your mistake,
I
will never think of making up.
Sincerely,
Marie.
In
September,
1926, Marie
returned
to
school
at
Sherman,
Texas,
leaving
Robert
very much
broken-
hearted
because
she
refused
to make
up.
She
told
Robert his jealousy was wholly unfounded, but he per-
sisted
in
accusing her of being
in love with Edward
Mason.
Feeling this way, she was unable to reconcile
herself and make up,
so she went away,
disappointed
herself and leaving Robert in the same fix.
Following her return to
school, Robert spent many

--- PAGE 39 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
^9
long weeks of anxiety, becoming very blue and dejected.
Many
letters passed between tbem.
He wrote much
poetry to Marie,
all without
avail.
Finally, he wrote
a letter and told her that
it would be the last ; that he
knew she was in love with Edward Mason, and that
there was no use going on.
Dear Marie,
This
is
to be my farewell
letter to you, for I Have given
up hope.
Ever since I first met you, you have been my ideal
and my one
inspiration.
I have
lived for you, worked for
you, thought of nothing
else but you.
Your love has given
me great encouragement to go
on, and now I realize that I
have lost you and that your love has been given to
another.
I
shall
always
love you and hope
that you
will some day
change your mind, and your heart turn to me.
Sorrowfully, your own
Robert.
With this letter he sent the poems "Loved and Lost"
and "Good-bye."
Dedicated to Marie:
LOVED AND LOST
It isn't failure to have lost
A
girl
of whom you
have
nobly
thought,
If buffeted and tempest tossed,
You fail
to win the
girl you sought.
It isn't failure, though the prize
In another's hand
is placed;
A hero very
often
dies
If dying keeps him undisgraced.

--- PAGE 40 of 432 ---

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
To bow unto a better man
Is not the worst thing I could do,
Success is not in the things we scan,
But in the heart forever true,
It takes more courage for to fail
Than win a girl undeserved.
To bear the taunts of those who rail
Than from your purpose to be swerved.
When a girl frowns darkly
And hope
is on
the wane
Be constant, true and patient
Defeat will blossom into gain.
If your aim
is high and honest
In victory
it will
tell,
For before the pearl is gotten
There must be a broken
shell.
Robert.
To Marie,
GOOD BYE
And now I fly to bear my wound away,
Haply the future heals me of this hurt,
Since, sorely wounded,
I
still keep today
Mine honor as an armor around me girt.
But these
last words,
fair
lady, bear
in mind:
Ere for your sport another heart you break,
Forbear the triumph dear to womankind
And spare your victim, even for my sake.
When Robert had finished this letter, he wrote to his
old chum, Walter Kennelworth, in ^ew York, that he
had written a farewell letter to Marie and that
it was
all
over.
Walter
replied:

--- PAGE 41 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
SI
Dear Robert,
I have
received your
letter
filled with gloom. Now,
cheer
up, old pal, the sun will shine again and Marie or some other
girl
just
as good will smile on you.
You
are too young
to
let
a
girl wreck you.
Stick
to
business and keep up
your
studies.
I enclose a poem which I think about
fits your
case, and
it will probably work out about that way.
With
all good wishes.
Your friend,
Walter.
A BROKEN VOW
It was a broken hearted boy who vowed a solemn vow,
I will not write a letter to that pretty little Editoress anyhow
;
I will not do that fearsome thing, I will not pen a jest.
About the beautiful Hostess who mocks the staying guest.
He made a postscript to his vow, he made a codicil,
He was serious as tho he formed his will.
And then he sat down and smiled with
all his might
About all the love letters he did not have to write.
But in a day or two he felt exceedingly queer and strange,
A restless something
filled his mind, he longed for a change;
He asked the doctor what was wrong, the doctor gave a
pill.
And made a memorandum to add twenty to his bill.
Then the pictures of all the girls he knew,
Came flocking to his brain;
Marie's lovely angel face marched sternly in the train.
And each of them and all of them compelled him to think
Just as a man thinks w-hen he quits smoke or drink.
At last a little disappointing note came—then he said:
Just one more farewell
love note
I'll
write;
It shall not be serious, something fancy and light.

--- PAGE 42 of 432 ---

52
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
He wrote a love letter,
Just as a man who says he has sworn off;
Takes Rock and Rye or some such thing to stop » oough.
But why pursue this sorry
tale,
Why
tell of what he did;
'Twas like the one more smoke or drink
That throws away the lid.
He wrote of the things she'd wrote and
said,
Of memories of sweet caresses that haunted the heart and head
;
He wrote of how much better she was than the other girl of
the
South,
Of her beautiful eyes and ruby mouth.
He wrote of love for her,
And how well she had served cocoa and consomme;
He wrote of love lost and debauched,
Until
the break
of
day.
And when they came and found him ill
And sought to nurse him thru,
They
said, "Here taste
this chicken soup
She made,
it will be good for you."
Robert became very despondent.
He no longer took
an interest in his work.
Mr. Kennelworth finally wrote
to Walter in New York, telling him of Robert's lack of
interest
in business, and that he wondered what had
brought such a change in him.
Walter, of course, had
received letters from Robert about his break with Marie,
so he wrote his father frankly and
told him
to have
patience with Robert, that when this love affair passed
away, he was sure he would be all right again.
Upon receiving Robert's letter, Marie wrote:

--- PAGE 43 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
33
My dear Robert,
This is to be my farewell letter to you.
I quote from Solo-
mon, 2
: 5, "Stay me with
flagons, comfort me with apples
;
for I am
sick of love."
Robert,
I would rather have green
apples and a stomach-ache,
like Solomon says, for I am sick
of what you
call
love.
I want you
to read
St. Paul
again,
and see if the way you are acting
is the way love acts.
Paul
says that "Love suffereth long, and
is kind; love envieth not,
doth not behave
itself unseemly, seeketh not her own,
is not
easily provoked, thinketh no evil."
Robert, if love is founded
on faith and trust,
it cannot be jealous.
Love
is the founda-
tion
of understanding, and
if you understood me and
if I
thoroughly
understood
you, we
would
be
in
love
yet, and
be
happy.
"Love seeketh not
its own to please
Nor for itself hath any care,
But for another gives
its ease
And builds a heaven in helFs despair."
So
long
as you
persist
in
jealousy and
accuse me
falsely,
how can I go on loving, because you are not the old Robert
who
first loved me and taught me to love
all of these years,
and was never jealous before.
Love that has been founded on
years of confidence cannot change in a moment for another,
and my love has not changed to Edward Mason, as you think.
I still love you, but you have been wrong in your accusations.
I am
sending you
a
little
article, "Love," and hope
that
you may some day see how wrong you have been, and when
you do, if you feel that way, write and tell me so.
Regretfully,
Marie.
LOVE
The Bpark
of
love
gives more
light than the universe of
truth; yet truth
is in love, and in order to act the truth, you
must make love the
truth, for remember that the handshake

--- PAGE 44 of 432 ---

34.
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
of friendship, or the kiss and love of an innocent
child, will
do more to lift a soul to the light than the strongest and wisest
argument even when rightly understood.
Beyond the boundaries of love no thought ever passed for
love
is everywhere.
Love
is a prophecy of freedom, and
its
song of melody is heard in the rhythmic motion of the ocean.
Each "fowl of the air, each fish of the sea, and every living
thing that moveth upon the earth" is the manifestation of love,
for in their subsistence love has said, "As I create so I pro-
vide."
Thus in every conceivable thing with form or without,
with harmony or with
discord—there
love
is manifested.
Love
is the
life of every
plant, of every
sunset,
of every
soul.
It
is the inspiration in the happy mind, and the voice
that speaks to us in the time of temptation.
Love
is the foundation of
all understanding,
it transcendg
all reasoning, for
it
is the fulfillment of the
greatest.
Love gives faith to all things, for love believeth in
its own.
Love symbolizes the everlasting, for
it
is the
spirit of the
beginning, and
its
wonderful
radiance
of
color
decks
each
sunrise and
sunset.
Love
is
the
breeze
that blows away
the
clouds
of
doubt
making the landscape of the soul radiant with joy and glad-
ness.
Each heart keeps time in unison to the rhythmic har-
monies of love, for each is Love in All.
Love has thrown into the shapeless void the breath that has
given
life to worlds and
this vital spark or the life of man,
illuminates the picture that love has painted.

--- PAGE 45 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
35
CHAPTER IV
WHE^Ni
Robert received Marie's
letter, he began
to
see himself in a
different
light.
He read
again the Book of Job, and realized what Job meant
when he said, "I had a great fear, and it has come upon
me."
Robert realized that he had been fearful of losing
Marie, and that as soon as there seemed to be a possibil-
ity of someone else being attracted to her, that that fear
had come upon him and caused him to become jealous
without cause, and that he had lost or was about to lose,
Marie, who had been more than life to him.
So he re-
plied to Marie as follows
:
Dearest Maeie:
Yonr
sweet
letter
received.
It
has
opened my
heart
to
understanding and made me see myself as I am.
I have read
St. Paul on the greatest thing
in the world and find that I
have not been patient, have not been kind or generous.
Above
all,
I have been jealous without
cause.
All
of
these things
are not a part of true
love.
Paul
says,
"Faith, Hope and
Love, but the greatest of these
is Love."
If I had had that
great faith which never faileth and which is founded on love
I would
not
have
been
jealous.
I
have
been
selfish;
have
sought myself to please, and have not thought enough about
you.
I am
sending
a
little poem
that
I have
written,
entitled
"'The Garden
of
Love,"
which
I
think
will
express
to you
fully just how I feel and how I see things now.
I have tried
to
enter
the Garden
of Love through
the wrong
gate, and

--- PAGE 46 of 432 ---

36
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
now I want to enter it through the right gate.
I will be happy
and trusting, loving and thinking only of you.
No more doubts or jealousy will ever be in my mind again,
because
love
will
be
there, and
these
foul weeds
can never
remain where love
is.
I
want
you,
Marie,
and
only
you.
Please
forgive
and
forget and make me happy again.
With all the love my heart can send, I am
Hopefully,
Your own Robert.
Dedicated to Marie Stanton, Who Inspired It.
THE GARDEN OF LOVE
Many
enter
the
Garden
of
Love
thru
the
wrong
gate
while there really is only one perfect gate.
Imagination often
leads us
into the wrong path.
selfishness
We
enter
thru
the
gate
of
Selfishness
and
immediately
find
ourselves
in
the dark
Valley
of Doubt where
the
foul
weeds of deceit, lack of confidence, malice, greed and jealousy
abound.
Just on the other side of the Valley of Doubt
lies
the Mountain of Jealousy, which springs from lack of
faith,
understanding
and
forgetfulness.
From
the
Mountain
of
Jealousy flows the river of Hate which has
its source
in the
Valley of Doubt.
This river leads to the Sea of Unhappiness,
Sorrow, Despair and Death.
unselfishness
We now enter the right gate to the Garden of Love, where
we
see a golden sign "Unselfishness" which can only lead to
Love.
We
enter
the Garden thru
the Gate
of Understand-
ing where
a
beautiful bed of white
lilies grow
in
all
their

--- PAGE 47 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
37
fragrance.
Grasp
one
quickly
and
carry
it
thru
life,
for
these
are the
lilies of faith which smother out
all
the
foul
weeds in the garden.
Next you will
see a fountain of pure water.
Touch your
lips to it for it is the Water of Forgetfulness and it feeds the
Lily
of
Faith.
After
this you
are ready
to
pass on
thru
the Garden and enjoy the
flowers which blossom forth nur-
tured by the Water of Love.
Among these are Self-sacrifice,
which is the basis of real love.
Then you will find a beautiful
flower that many never see at
all, Confidence.
It is beautiful
and fragrant and stands near the Flower of Happiness.
You
will
find the flower of Kindness
in
full bloom beside
the Rose of Charity, then near the end of the Garden there
is a tiny flower blooming
all
alone.
It
is pale and
delicate
and few
appreciate
it
until
late
in
life,
it
is Unrewarded
Kindness.
But we do reach
it just before we pass into the
Vale of Content, and we realize that the path which leads to
Love and Happiness
is only found by helping
to
lead our
fellow travelers thru the Field of Content.
When we have progressed thus far we look for the other
entrance to the Garden and find that the Gate of
Selfishness
has disappeared and the Valley of Doubt is now covered with
the
Lily of
Faith, and
the Mountain
of Jealousy
has been
melted
into a Valley of
Self-sacrifice.
Where the River of
Hate flowed we now find a Sea of Kindness flowing into the
Ocean of Happiness.
When we reach the end of the Garden
we find the flower of
all flowers,
its beauty and radiance far
outshining
the
noon-day
Sun.
Seek
no
further—it
is
the
Flower of Love.
Place the Lily of Faith beside
it, nurture
it with the Water of Kindness and you
will have
it always.
Robert.
This was
the
letter
that won Marie,
because
she
agreed with St. Paul that love was the greatest thing in
the world.
She did not wait to write, but telegraphed
Robert:

--- PAGE 48 of 432 ---

38
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
YOUR SWEET LETTER RECEIVED—YOU ARE MY OLD ROBERT AND
I AM YOUR MARIE AND ALWAYS WILL BE
MARIE.
Marie then wrote the following letter:
Dear Robert,
I have
just wired you because
I am happier now than I
have ever been and
I know that we
are always going to be
happy.
You are going to be my ideal Robert, the way that
I want you to be, and I am going to love you and make you
so happy that you'll always be that way.
I knew all along that it was useless for us to make up until
you saw things in the right light and realized that there was
no
cause
for
jealousy and
that my long
years
of
devotion
should have proven my love.
Until you could see
it that way
and make up under those conditions,
it would only invite more
trouble later.
There
is really nothing more to
say, but to
let bygones be
bygones, live and love each other and make the future every-
thing we want
it
to
be, because love
creates everything and
made the world.
God
is
love.
The
little poem you
sent,
"Loved and
Lost,"
seems very
appropriate now for
in
it you
said that before the pearl
is
gotten, there must be a broken shell.
You did have the broken
shell, Robert, and now we are going to mend
it.
I believe that
your aim has been
high and
honest,
and now
in
future
it
will
tell.
I can hardly wait to see you, Robert.
I want you to come
over next
Saturday
afternoon, and spend
Saturday evening
and Sunday with me.
I want to look into your trusting eyes
again and know that you
still love me in the same old way.
I want
to make you know that
I have never loved Edward
Mason or anyone else, but have always loved and trusted you.
With
all
the
love my
heart can
give,
I am
Your
Marie.

--- PAGE 49 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
39
P.S.
I am
enclosing
a
poem,
^The Land
of
Beginning
Again." We are really going to begin again, aren't we, Rob-
ert, and be more happy than ever?
THE LAND OF BEGINNING AGAIN
I wish that there were some wonderful place
Called the Land of Beginning Again,
Where
all our mistakes and
all our heartaches
And
all of our poor,
selfish grief
Could be dropped, like a shabby old coat, at the door,
And never put on again.
I wish we could come on it all unaware.
Like the hunter who finds a lost trail
;
And I wish that the one whom our blindness had done
The greatest injustice of
all
Could be at the gates, like an old friend that waits
For the comrade he's gladdest to
hail.
We would find all the things we intended to do
But forgot and remembered—too late.
Little praises unspoken,
little promises broken,
And all of the thousand and one
Little duties neglected that might have perfected
The day for one
less fortunate.
It wouldn't be possible not to be kind,
In the Land of Beginning Again
;
And the ones we misjudged and the ones whom we grudged
Their moments of victory here
Would find in the grasp of our loving handclasp
More than penitent lips could explain.

--- PAGE 50 of 432 ---

40
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
For what had been hardest we'd know had been best,
And what had seemed
loss would be gain;
For there
isn't a sting that will not take wing
When we've faced
it and laughed
it away;
And I think that the laughter
is most what we're after
In the Land of Beginning Again
!
So I wish that there were some wonderful place
Called the Land of Beginning Again,
Where
all our mistakes and
all our heartaches
And
all of our poor,
selfish grief
Could be dropped, like a shabby old coat, at the door,
And never put on again.
Louisa Fletcher Tarkington.
On a beautiful sunshiny Saturday afternoon on the
23rd
of
October,
1926,
as the train wended
its way
across
the
prairies
for Sherman,
Texas,
Robert kept
watching out of the car window, his face beaming with
smiles
as he thought of his meeting with Marie.
He
counted every turn of the wheels because he knew they
were bringing him closer to her.
When he arrived in Sherman that night, Marie wel-
comed him with open arms.
They spent Saturday and
Sunday together and were happier than they had ever
been before.
He confided to Marie his future
plans.
Told her that he was working on an invention, and also
planning to make some money speculating in Stocks and
Commodities.
That he hoped to make a lot of money
and prove himself worthy of
her,
so
that her
father
would consent to their marriage.
That he would return
with
all
the hope and
faith
a man could have
in
a
woman, and with that faith and her love failure was
impossible,
as there wasn't anything in the world he

--- PAGE 51 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
41
couldn't do.
Marie assured him of her faith and con-
fidence.
So long
as he had
that
faith and her
love,
she knew he could do great
things.
Said she would
willingly wait until he made a success.
After Rohert returned^ he hegan to study the Bihle
more
than
ever,
and work
out
things
according
to
science.
He read the Book of Ezekiel, and planned on
building an airplane along the lines outlined by Ezekiel.
Figured that there must be a way to build a plane of
this kind which would be the greatest ever, and felt that
the day was coming when his country would need the
protection of the greatest invention of the age.
From
reading of the Bible, war seemed inevitable, and Robert
believed that the next war would be in the air.
He began to read all the magazines along the lines of
science and invention and studied the Bible in order to
understand natural law and know how to apply
it.
Robert wrote to Walter telling him that he had been
to Sherman to see Marie, that they had made up and
that he was supremely happy.
He confided to Walter
his hopes of a great discovery and told him that with
the love of Marie and her faith in him there was nothing
he could not do.
He had figured out from the Bible that
a time of
trouble such as the w^orld had never seen would begin in
1927, and would continue until 1932.
There would be
war, famine and pestilence
all over the earth, and that
except the time be shortened every human being on the
face of the earth would be destroyed according to the
Bible.
He was anxious to make money to complete his
invention to protect his own country because he knew

--- PAGE 52 of 432 ---

42
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
that the United States was yet to face the greatest war
in history, and every nation would rise against us.
The
great gold supply that was gathered by the United States
from the beginning of the great World War had caused
commercial jealousy of
all other nations and
it would
only be a short time before we were
at war.
Unless
we were prepared with modern inventions we were go-
ing to lose the next war.
He knew what was coming
and wanted to prepare to meet the emergency that was
to come.
Many letters passed between Robert and Marie dur-
ing the latter part of 1926.
Her letters of love and en-
couragement
helped
Robert
to make
progress
in
his
work.
He
saved
his money
and
planned
for
their
future.
Christmas,
1926, was the happiest that Robert had
ever known and wanting Marie to share
it with him he
sent her a beautiful ring, wrote her that he had saved
his money and was now in position to buy
it.
The dia-
mond, he said, represented purity, firmness and faith
and symbolized
all
those things
in her and
his
great
trust in her.
He told her that he was anxious to get in
shape to go to ^ew York to continue his studies, and
work and make money and be near his old chum, Wal-
ter, who had always been a great comfort to him and
encouraged him in so many ways.
In thanking Robert for the ring, Marie wrote
that
so long as she lived, she would wear
it in honor of him,
and
as an emblem of faith and
trust
in the
greatest
man in the world.
That she knew there was nothing
he could not do.
The little poem entitled, "It Can Be

--- PAGE 53 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
43
Done," which she sent along was a great
inspiration
to Robert when
trials,
troubles and obstacles arose in
the years that followed.
IT CAN BE DONE
Somebody said that it couldn't be done^
But
he, with a
chuckle, replied
That maybe
it couldn't, but he would be one
Who wouldn't say so
till he tried.
So he buckled right
in, with the trace of a grin
On his
face.
If he worried, he hid
it.
He started to sing as he tackled the thing
That couldn't be done, and he did
it.
Somebody scoffed:
"Oh,
you'll never do that:
At least
it has never been done,"
But he took off his coat and he took off his hat.
And the first thing we knew he'd begun
it.
With the lift of his chin, and a;*bit of a grin,
Without any doubting or quiddit,
He started to sing as he tackled the thing
That couldn't be done, and he did
it.
There are thousands
to
tell you
it cannot be done,
There are thousands to prophesy failure;
There are thousands to point out to you, one by one,
The dangers that wait to assail you;
But just buckle in with a bit of a grin,
Then take
off your coat and go to
it;
Just start in to sing as you tackle the thing,
That cannot be done and you'll do
it.
On the 1st day of January, 1927, Robert received a
beautiful
letter
of commendation from
his employer.

--- PAGE 54 of 432 ---

44j
the tunnel THRU THE AIR
Mr. Kennelworth,
in whicli was enclosed a check for
$500 as a bonus, and
also notice of an advance in his
salary of $50 a month.
This was very gratifying to
Robert, because he
felt that he was making progress,
and that a man who had made the great success that
Mr. Kennelworth had, must have been watching him
closer than he thought.
He thought that Mr. Kennel-
worth had seen something in him worthy of advance-
ment, so he only worked harder to show his apprecia-
tion.
He wrote a letter to his friend Walter in New
York
telling him of his
father's
generosity and how
much he appreciated
it now that he was working, plan-
ning and saving his money, hoping to be with Walter
in New York soon where he could start speculating and
make a lot of money so that he could complete his great
invention and do something to benefit the world.
Robert wrote Marie of this good fortune which had
come to him in the new year and how it had stimulated
his hopes to greater things in the future.
He was sure
that with her love, he would continue and accomplish
every desire that he had hoped for.
Marie wrote him
beautiful letters of encouragement,
filled with love and
admiration for the man that she was living
for,—her
ideal.
She told him that she was making great progress
with her studies and hoped to graduate in a few years
and be an honor to him and assist him in his work.
She
sent
a
little poem,
entitled; "Act the Man and Face
It Out"

--- PAGE 55 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
45
ACT THE MAN AND FACE IT OUT
Should life's storms be blowing gusty, or the road be hot and
dusty,
Don't give up and pull a face
all glum and blue;
Cheer up, man, and
tackle
trouble.
If your
efforts you re-
double
There'll be brighter days ahead awaiting you.
Where's the use of whining, moaning, or of wasting time in
droning
Never yet have such things pulled a fellow thru.
When you've trouble you must meet
it, that's the proper way
to treat
it.
Always bear in mind results depend on you.
Never heed the whiner's
chatter,
'tis right deeds that matter,
That will pierce the clouds—the roughest pathway span,
Every trouble
is made
lighter, and
you'll
find your outlook
brighter
If you tackle things and face them like a man.
If you mean to conquer trouble, you must take it at the double.
You must act the man and face the matter out;
Tackle trouble, gamely fight
it.
Shirking it will never right it,
Face it bravely, and your trouble you will rout.
Tid Bin.
Marie wrote of her plans for the future.
How she
hoped to live to see him the greatest man in the world
;
how she wanted to one day bring him before her father
and show him what her love and confidence in a poor
boy had done for him.
She wanted her father to be
proud of Robert as she was.
After
all the success she

--- PAGE 56 of 432 ---

46
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
wanted them to be able to enjoy tbe closing years of
their lives in peace and quiet together, where they could
reminisce over the
trials,
troubles and
obstacles
over-
come which had led to the victory which
is always the
fruit of true and lasting love.
Here follows a poem
''After the Years—Quiet."
AFTER THE YEARS—QUIET
At
last—after
the
years
have
wrought
their
will,
Go build a house of solace for thyself;
With things that pleasure thee
its rooms upfiU-—
Turn thy soft light; a rosejar on thy shelf.
Have there the books thou wilt not read again,
So well thou knowest
all of their magic old;
Have there the lute that silent shall remain,
Thy heart
all music from its tones of gold.
And dream beside thy fire
; dream of the guest
That Cometh now no more—yet he
is there,
If so thy
soul would shape him, and thy
rest
And dream—within
a dream with thee
will
share.
Have there
all things thou countest as thine own;
And what thou wouldst have had—there
let
it
be.
But what thou wouldst not
let
it pass unknown,
After
the years have wrought
their
will on
thee.
And take no more a burden on thy heart,
Wrestling—if this be good—if that be
ill
;
And strive no more to better what thou art;
With consolation thy whole being
fill.

--- PAGE 57 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
47
And so with quiet lapping thee around,
A presence
like a God's thy house
shall
fill,
But question not thereof nor even pray.
For importuning words such joy might
mill.
Build thee that house of solace—out of sight;
A charm above the door and on the
sill.
And trouble shall go by thee.
'Tis thy right
At
last—after
the years have wrought
their
will.
Edith M. Thomas.
Robert sent Marie an article entitled, "A Standard"
by Christian D. Larson.
He told her that this was going
to be bis standard for the future, and
that following
this standard witb ber love and faitb be would accom-
plisb everything that sbe hoped for bim to.
A STANDARD
To be so strong that nothing can disturb your peace of mind.
To make
all your friends see that there
is something in them.
To look
at the funny
side of everything and make your op-
timism come
true.
To think only of the best, to work only for the
best, and to
expect
only
the
best.
To be just as enthusiastic about the success of others as you
are about your own.
To forget the mistakes of the past and press on to the greater
achievements of the future.
To wear a cheerful countenance
at
all times and give every
living creature you meet a smile.
To
give
so much time
to
the improvement of yourself
that
you have no time to criticize others.
To be too
large
for worry,
too noble
for
anger,
too
strong
for
fear;
and
too
happy
to
permit
the
presence
of
trouble.

--- PAGE 58 of 432 ---

48
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
To
think
well of yourself and
to proclaim
this face
to
the
world, not in loud words but in great deeds.
To
live in the faith that the whole world
is on your side so
long as you are true to the best that
is in you.
Christian D. Larson.
Marie
continued
to
write him
encouraging
letters
from time to time.
Their love affair continued smooth
with no troubles or interruptions.
Marie was a great
reader and was
studying
carefully,
always
collecting
poems and
articles which she thought would help and
encourage Robert.
One was entitled:
"WHY THE SAINTS WERE SAINTS"
Because they were cheerful when
it was hard to be cheerful;
And patient when
it was hard to be patient;
And because they pushed on when they wanted to stand
still;
And kept silent when they wanted to talk,
And were agreeable when they wanted
to be disagreeable.
Author Unknown.
and
also
another one by Herbert Kaufman,
reading
as follows:
Don't
let busy-bodies turn you from
the path you have
se-
lected,
Incredulity and unbelief are quite to be expected,
What if butters-in do scold you?
What
if fools try to remold you?
If you aren't streaked with yellow such
Discouragement won't hold you.
Some will doubt you.
Lots will
flout you.

--- PAGE 59 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
49
More than one will
lie about you.
They'll deride you
And decide you.
Need an "Older" hand to guide you.
Do not listen to the croakers—fight it out once you have com-
menced
it.
If you meet with opposition simply run your head against
it.
All big things that we know about were won by self-believers.
Quitters, never have been, nor can they be, achievers.
Herbert Kaufman.

--- PAGE 60 of 432 ---

50
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER V
MARIE'S love and devotion for Robert v^ere bear-
ing fruit.
He studied the Bible day and night,
worked on his plans for the future and continued his
investigation of science, for he believed that the Bible
was the key to the process by which man may know all
there
is to know.
He realized that by studying
it he
might be able to forecast the future and benefit himself
thereby.
Above
all things he was
interested
in
air-
planes, inventing and improving an airplane that would
be useful in the future wars.
He had found the plan
for a great airplane in Ezekiel 1 :4:-16
:
And
I
looked, and
behold,
a whirlwind came
out
of
the
north, a great cloud, and a
fire infolding itself, and a bright-
ness was about
it, and out of the midst thereof as the colour
of amber, out of
the midst of the
fire.
Also
out
of
the midst
thereof came
the
likeness
of
four
living
creatures.
And
this was
their appearance;
they had
the likeness of a man.
And one had four faces, and every one had four wings.
And
their
feet were
straight
feet; and
the
sole
of
their
feet was like the sole of a calf's foot; and they sparkled like
the colour of burnished brass.
And they had
the hands
of a man under
their wings on
their four sides ; and they four had their faces and their wings.
Their wings were
joined one
to
another;
they turned not
when they went;
they went
every one
straight
forward.
As for the likeness of their
faces, they four had
the face

--- PAGE 61 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
51
of a man, and the face of a lion on the right side; and they
four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four
also
had the face of an eagle.
Thus were their faces; and their wings were stretched up-
ward; two wings of every one were
joined one
to
another;
and two covered their bodies.
And
they went
every
one
straight
forward;
whither
the
spirit was to go; they went; and they turned not when they
went.
As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance
was
like burning
coals
of
fire, and
like
the
appearance of
lamps :
it went up and down among the living creatures ; and
the
fire was bright, and out of the
fire went forth lightning.
And the living creatures ran and returned as the appear-
ance of a flash of lightning.
Now,
as
I
beheld
the
living
creatures,
behold,
one wheel
upon the earth by the
living
creatures, with
his four
faces.
The appearance
of
the
wheels
and
their work
was
like
unto the colour of a beryl; and they four had one likeness:
and their appearance and their work was as
it were a wheel
in the middle of a wheel.
Robert felt sure that this was the prediction and de-
scription of an airplane that Ezekiel was talking about.
He thought that an airplane could be built with four
wings, which would be more powerful and useful than
any of the airplanes yet built.
It was his great desire
to build an airplane of this kind.
Robert read Ezekiel 5 :2 and 12
:
Thou shalt burn with
fire a third part in the midst of the
city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and thou shalt
take a third part, and smite about it with a knife ; and a third
part thou
shalt
scatter in the wind; and I
will draw but a
sword
after them.
A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with

--- PAGE 62 of 432 ---

52
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
famine
shall they be consumed
in the midst of thee; and
a
third part
shall
fall by the sword round about
thee; and
I
will scatter a third part into
all the winds, and I will draw
out a sword after them.
Also Ezekiel 7 :2 and 12
:
Also, thou son of man, thus
saith the Lord God unto the
land of Israel.
An end, the end is come upon the four comers
of the land.
The time
is come, the day draweth near;
let not the buyer
rejoice, nor the seller mourn; for wrath
is upon
all the mul-
titude thereof.
Robert thought
lie saw in this the coming war and
famine on
the
earth from
the
cycle,
that
a
greater
portion
of the
earth would be destroyed by war and
famine, and that the end was near.
Ezekiel 7:13:
For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although
they were yet alive; for the vision
is touching the whole mul-
titude
thereof,
which
shall
not
return;
neither
shall
any
strengthen himself in
the
iniquity of his
life.
Ezekiel 8:1 and 14:
And
it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month,
in the
fifth day of the month,
as
I
sat
in mine
house, and
the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord
God fell there upon me.
Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's
house
which was
toward
the
north; and
behold,
there
sat
women weeping for Tammuz.
Ezekiel 10:9-11:
And when I looked, behold, the four wheels by the cheru-
bims, one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another

--- PAGE 63 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
53
cherub:
and
the
appearance
of
the
wheels was
as
of
the
colour of a beryl
stone.
And as for their appearances, they four had one
likeness,
as
if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel.
When
they
went,
they went upon
their
four
sides;
they
turned not
as they went, but
to the place whither
the head
looked they followed
it; they turned not as they went.
Robert felt sure that it was an airplane which Ezekiel
was talking about and which was going to be made in
the future.
He thought the one referred to with
^'the
face of an eagle" referred to the United States Govern-
ment.
He hoped to build some day and help win the
great war in the air and make peace when the days of
the "End" come and
the
great
air
battles would
be
fought.
Ezekiel 10:19 and 21:
And the cherubims
lifted up
their wings, and mounted up
from the earth in my sight; when they went
out, the wheels
also were beside them; and every one
stood
at
the door of
the east gate of the Lord's house; and the glory of the God
of Israel was over them above.
Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings
;
and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings.
Ezekiel 12 :22
:
Son of man, what
is that proverb that ye have in the land
of
Israel,
saying, The days
are prolonged, and every vision
faileth?
Ezekiel 14:14, 16 and 21:
Though these three men, Noah, Daniel and Job, were in
it,
they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness,
saith the Lord God.
Though these three men were in
it, as I live, saith the Lord

--- PAGE 64 of 432 ---

54
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
God, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters; they only
shall be delivered, but the land
shall be desolate.
For thus saith the Lord God.
How much more when I send
my four judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the fam-
ine, and the noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from
it man and beast.
Ezekiel 16:1 and 44:
Again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Behold, every one that useth proverbs
shall
use
this prov-
erb against thee, saying. As
is the mother, so
is her daughter.
Ezekiel 17:3 and 7:
And say. Thus saith the Lord God, A great eagle with great
wings, long-winged, full of feathers, which had divers colours,
came unto Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar:
There was
also another great
eagle with great wings and
many
feathers;
and,
behold,
this
vine
did bend
her
roots
toward
him,
and
shot
forth
her
branches toward
him,
that
he might water
it by the furrows of her plantation.
Ezekiel 20 :46
:
Son of man
set thy face toward
the south, and drop thy
word toward
the
south, and prophesy
against
the
forest
of
the south
field:
Robert
interpreted
this
to mean
that the day was
coming when there would be a great air fight from the
southern part of the United States.
Ezekiel 20 :47
:
And say to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the
Lord, Thus
saith the Lord God, Behold,
I
will kindle a
fire
in
thee,
and
it
shall
devour
every
green
tree
in
thee,
and
every dry tree; the flaming flame
shall not be quenched, and
all faces from the south to the north shall be burned therein.

--- PAGE 65 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
55
He thought this meant the South would be destroyed
by airplanes with liquid
fire and poisonous chemicals
when the war would take place.
Robert read Ezekiel 21:14, 26 and 30:
Thou,
therefore,
son
of man,
prophesy,
and
smite
thine
hands together, and
let the sword be doubled the third time,
the sword of the slain;
it is the sword of the great men that
are
slain, which entereth into
their privy chambers.
Thus saith the Lord God, Remove the diadem, and take
off
the crown;
this shall not be the same;
exalt him that
is low,
and abase him that
is
high.
Shall
I
cause
it
to return
into
his sheath?
I
will judge
thee
in
the
place where
thou
wast
created,
in
the
land
of
the nativity.
Ezekiel 28:3:
Behold thou art wiser than Daniel; there
is no secret that
they can hide from thee:
Robert had great faith in the prophecies of Ezekiel
because the Lord said:
^'Behold, thou
art wiser than
Daniel.
There
is no
secret that they can hide from
thee."
He understood from Ezekiel's prophecies that
a great war was coming and that
it would be fought in
the air by the great airplanes
as described by Ezekiel
32:1 and 2:
And
it came
to
pass
in
the
twelfth
year,
in
the
twelfth
month,
in the
first day of the month,
that the word
of the
Lord came unto me, saying.
Son of man,
take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of
Lgypt, and say unto him. Thou art
like a young lion of the
nations,
and
thou
art
as
a
whale
in
the
seas;
and
thou
earnest forth with thy
rivers, and troubledst the waters with
thy feet, and fouledst their rivers.

--- PAGE 66 of 432 ---

56
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
From these predictions of Ezekiel and others in the
Bible which Robert believed was
a repetition
of pre-
vious battles, he interpreted
it to mean that there was
to be a great flood during the year 1927.
He predicted
terrible floods along the Mississippi Valley, which would
destroy the cotton crops and would lay waste vast acres
of fertile land.
He wrote that
it would be one of the
greatest floods in history.
Ezekiel 32 :7
:
And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and
make
the
stars
thereof
dark;
I
will
cover
the
sun
with
a
cloud, and the moon
shall not give her
light.
Robert understood this to mean the two great eclipses
that would occur in June, 1927.
Ezekiel 33:21 and 33:
And
it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity,
in the tenth month,
in
the
fifth day of the month,
that one
that had escaped out of Jerusalem came unto me, saying. The
City
is smitten.
And when this cometh to pass,
(lo,
it will come) then shall
they know that a prophet hath been among them.
Robert felt that he knew the Scriptures and was pre-
pared to prophesy the future and warn the people of
the famine, pestilence and the coming war.
Ezekiel 35:1 and 8:
Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying.
And
I
will
fill
his mountains with
his
slain men:
in thy
hills, and
in
thy
valleys, and
in
all
thy
rivers,
shall
they
fall that are slain with the sword.
Ezekiel 36:1 and 34:
Also,
thou son of man, prophesy
unto
the mountains of

--- PAGE 67 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
57
Israel, and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the
Lord.
And the desolate land
shall be
tilled, whereas
it lay deso-
late in the sight of
all that passed by.
Ezekiel 37:9, 16, 17, 19 and 22:
Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son
of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord God, Come
from the four winds,
Breath, and breathe upon these slain,
that they may
live.
Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one
stick, and write
upon
it. For Judah, and for the children of Israel
his com-
panions:
then
take
another
stick
and
write upon
it.
For
Joseph, the
stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel
his companions:
And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall
become one in thine hand.
Say unto
them. Thus
saith
the Lord God,
Behold,
I
will
take the
stick
of Joseph, which
is
in
the hand
of Ephraim,
and the
tribes of
Israel
his
fellows, and
will put them with
him, even with the
stick of Judah, and make them one
stick,
and they
shall be one in mine hand.
And I will make them one nation in the land upon the moun-
tains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them
all; and
they
shall
be
no more
two
nations,
neither
shall
they
be
divided into two kingdoms, any more at
all.
Robert
interpreted
this
to mean the coming of the
great war when the United
States should be the one
great
nation
that would
rule
the
world;
that
there
would be no more divided kingdoms and no more
di-
vided countries, that
it would be the United States of
the World, which would be the land of liberty where
freedom exists.

--- PAGE 68 of 432 ---

58
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Ezekiel 38:19:
For
in my jealousy and
in the
fire of my wrath, have I
spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in
the land of
Israel.
Robert
understood—"the
jealousy
in
the
fire
of
wrath''—to mean
chemical
elements which would
be
used in the coming war and the use of airplanes.
Ezekiel 39:2:
And I will turn thee back, and leave but the sixth part of
thee, and will cause thee to come up from the north parts, and
will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel.
Robert's interpretation of this was that the last great
battle
of the war was
to
be
fought
in
the northern
part of the United
States.
Ezekiel 39 :8 and 9
:
Behold,
it
is come, and
it
is done, saith the Lord God; this
is the day whereof I have spoken.
And they that dwell
in the
cities of Israel
shall go
forth,
and
shall set on
fire and burn the weapons, both the
shields
and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves
and the spears, and they shall burn them with fire seven years.
He thought the 9th verse where
it says that every-
thing
should
be
burnt
with
fire
seven
years,
meant
either seven years of war, or seven days.
He had read
where
it says, "I will appoint a day for a year and a
year for a day."
Ezekiel 39:11, 12 and 14:
And
it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give unto
Gog a place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the pas-
sengers of the east of the sea; and
it shall stop the noses of

--- PAGE 69 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
59
the passengers; and
there
shall
they bury Gog,
and
all
his
multitude
; and they shall call
it, The Valley of Hamon-gog.
And seven months
shall the house of Israel be burying of
them, that they may
cleanse the land.
And
they
shall
sever
out men
of
continual
employment,
passing through the land
to bury with
the
passengers
those
that remain upon the face of the
earth,
to
cleanse
it;
after
the end of seven months shall they search.
Robert thought
all
this
referred
to
the war yet
to
come, in which the United States was to play the final
and principal part, and the use of the airplanes should
reach
its greatest perfection.
Ezekiel 43:1,
2,
3, 4 and 10:
Afterward he brought me
to
the
gate, even
the
gate
that
looketh toward
the
east:
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the
way of the east, and his voice was like a noise of many waters
:
and the earth shined with
his
glory.
And
it was according to the appearance of the vision that
I saw when I came to destroy the
city; and the visions were
like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar
:
and I fell upon
my
face.
And the glory of the Lord came into the house, by the way
of the gate whose prospect
is toward the east.
Thou son of man, shew the house
to
the house of
Israel,
that they may be ashamed of
their
iniquities; and
let them
measure the pattern.
Ezekiel 44:1,
4,
5 and 26:
Then he brought me back the way of the gate of the out-
ward
sanctuary, which
looketh toward
the
east, and
it was
shut.
Then brought he me the way 6f the north gate before the
house; and I looked, and, behold, the glory of the Lord filled
the house of the Lord; and
fell upon my face.

--- PAGE 70 of 432 ---

60
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
And the Lord
said unto me, Son of man, mark
well, and
behold with thine
eyes, and hear with
thine
ears,
all
that
I
say unto thee concerning
all
the ordinances of the house of
the Lord, and
all the laws thereof; and mark well the enter-
ing in of the house, with every going forth of the sanctuary.
And
after he
is cleansed they
shall reckon unto him seven
days.
Robert thought this referred to the last seven days
at the end of the Great War in the Air.
Ezekiel 45 :25
:
In the seventh month, in
the
fifteenth day of
the month,
shall he do the like in the feast of the seven days, according to
the sin
offering, and according to the meat
offering, and ac-
cording to the
oil.
Robert thought this referred to the 15th day of July,
1932.
Ezekiel 46:1, 2 and 17:
Thus saith the Lord God, The gate of the inner court that
looketh toward
the
east
shall be shut the
six working days;
but on the sabbath
it shall be opened, and in the day of the
new moon
it shall be opened.
And
the
prince
shall
enter by way of the porch of that
gate without, and
shall
stand by the post of
the
gate, and
the
^ priests
shall
prepare
his
burnt
offering and
his
peace
offerings, and he
shall worship
at the threshold of the gate:
then he
shall go forth; but the gate
shall not be shut until
the evening.
But if he give a gift of his inheritance to one of his serv-
ants, then
it shall be his to the year of liberty; after
it shall
return to the prince; but his inheritance shall be his son's for
them.
Ezekiel 47:5,
6, 8 and 9:
Afterward he measured a thousand; and
it was a river that

--- PAGE 71 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
61
I could not pass over:
for the waters were
risen, waters to
swim in, a river that could not be passed over.
And he
said unto me, Son
of man,
hast thou
seen
this?
then he brought me, and caused me to return to the brink of
the river.
Then
said he unto me. These waters
issue out toward
the
east
country, and go down
into the
desert, and go
into the
sea:
which being brought forth into the
sea, the waters shall
be healed.
And
it shall come to pass, that everything that liveth, which
moveth, whithersoever, the
rivers
shall come,
shall
live:
and
there
shall
be
a very great multitude
of
fish,
because
these
waters shall come thither
:
for they shall be healed ; and every-
thing shall live whither the river cometh.
Ezekiel 48:14 and 15:
And they shall not
sell of
it, neither exchange, nor alienate
the first fruits of the land
:
for
it is holy unto the Lord.
And
the
five thousand
that
are
left
in
the
breadth,
over
against the five and twenty thousand, shall be a profane place
for the city, for dwelling, and for suburbs; and the city shall
be in the midst thereof.

--- PAGE 72 of 432 ---

62
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER YI
ROBERT wrote to Walter in 'New York and told
him
about
his
plans
for
the
future; how
well
he was getting along, about his new discoveries and how
he had worked out the future from the Bible.
He asked
Walter's
advice
about
sending an
article
to Walter's
father in regard to his future predictions based on the
Bible.
Walter thought
it the opportune time, in view
of the fact that his father had confidence in Robert.
After he had worked out his cycle theory according
to the
Bible, and
decided
that he
could
forecast
the
markets and make money, he wrote to Mr. Kennelworth,
his employer.
Texarkana, Texas.
January 15, 1927.
Mr.
J. H. Kennelworth,
Texarkana,
Texas.
My dear Mr. Kennelworth:
I want you to know how much I appreciate the bonus you
gave me on the 1st of the year.
While I want to use it wisely,
together with a
little other money
I have
saved,
I
feel
it
is
my duty to tell you what I intend to do with
it.
I have been
studying
the Bible
night and day
for many
years, and
I
believe
that I have found
in
it the key
to
all
prophecy,—the
rules
fortelling
the
events
in
the
history
of
the country, the progress in invention, and also rules for fore-
casting the
future of
stocks and
commodities.
I have been

--- PAGE 73 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
63
reading some books and studj'ing commodities and stocks and
have applied the rules as I understand them from the Bible.
I feel sure that I am able to foretell what
is going to happen
in stocks and commodities, and
I am very anxious
to make
some money out of
it so that I can go to Nev;^ York and join
Walter there, where
I
will have greater advantages and can
study and experiment with some inventions which I have
in
mind.
From the teachings of the Bible and
the methods which I
have worked
out, I
feel confident that the price of cotton
is
going very high this Spring.
I figure that there are going to
be some heavy
floods
along the
Mississippi
River, and
that
there will be a late, wet Spring, and that the demand for cot-
ton
will
greatly
increase,
helping
to
put
prices
very
high.
Therefore,
I have decided to use the $500.00 which you gave
me and another $500.00 which I have saved up, to buy cotton
to hold for the Spring and Summer.
I would
like
to have
your opinion of this venture.
Assuring you of my appreciation of your advice,
I am
Sincerely yours,
Robert Gordon.
About this time Mr. J.
11. Kennelwortli received tlie
following letter from his son, Walter, in ISTew York
:
New York
City,
January 12, 1927.
Dear Father:
I have just received a letter from my good friend, Robert,
and he tells me that he
is anxious to join me in New York in
a few months,
that he has figured out some new discoveries
and inventions from the Bible, and that he wants to do some
speculating
in
order
to make
some
money.
He
asked my
opinion
of
putting
before you some
of
his
discoveries and
getting your opinion on them.
I wrote him that I was sure
he would
find a sympathetic listener in you and advised him
to put his plans frankly before you.

--- PAGE 74 of 432 ---

64
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
Father, I hope that you
will give Robert your best advice
and
co-operation because I have great
faith in him.
He
is
a
brilliant boy and
is going
to have
a great
future.
He
is
loyal and honest, you know, and a hard worker, and I would
hate to see him leave your employ.
At the same time I would
like to see him in New York as soon as possible.
I am
getting along
nicely
with my
studies, and hope
to
graduate in a couple of years.
Give my love to mother, and
all.
Your son,
Walter.
When Mr. Kennelworth received Robert's
letter, he
dictated the following reply to his stenographer:
My dear Robert
:
Your very
interesting
letter
received.
I have the
greatest
faith in your ability and believe that if anyone can work out
anything
valuable
from
the
Bible, you
can
do
it.
I
have
watched very
carefully your
persistency, and am much
im-
pressed with your loj^alty and determination.
It
is admirable
the
confidence and
faith
that you have
in
yourself,
as
well
as having
great
confidence
in
the greatest book of
all. The
Holy
Bible.
But when
it comes to
speculation, Robert,
I want
to
give
you some advice from my experience.
It
is a very dangerous
game.
It may be inviting, but
it is not a business, Robert.
It
is
a
gamble.
Of
course
I know
that some men make
it a
business.
Most men cannot control themselves when they get
into
it, the result—they gamble, and in the end, lose
all.
I will give you
a
little experience that
I had.
I went to
New York many years
ago, and on
advice and information
from
some
friends
of
mine, was
induced
to buy
some
oil
stock.
This was
in
the
Fall
of
1919.
Oil
stocks advanced
rapidly, and along in October, my friends advised me to buy
more.
I had some handsome
profits and
did buy more.
I
confess
that
I knew nothing about
oil
stocks or any
other

--- PAGE 75 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
65
stocks, but simply followed my friends^ advice in buying them.
In November, 1919, the market smashed
all to pieces, and the
oil stocks declined 50 to 100 points.
I had big profits at the
top, but before the break was over, I not only lost
all of my
profits, but about $50,000 or $60,000 of my capital.
This taught me a
lesson.
I had made my money in
the
lumber
business and
in
railroading.
I had now gone
into
something
that I knew
nothing about and
suffered a heavy
loss.
My friends and brokers tried to induce me to hold on
and put up more margin; said that I would eventually come
out all right, but I took the loss and charged
it up to experi-
ence.
Had I held on to these
stocks,
I would have
lost my
entire
fortune,
because
they
continued
to
go down
during
1920 and 1921, and were 50 to 60 points lower than where I
sold
out.
So you can
see, Robert, what a
costly experience
this would have been and how wise I was to stop in time.
The best advice that I can give you
is, to stop before you
start.
You will save time and worry, aside from the
loss of
what
little money you have saved up.
I want to encourage
and
help you
in every way
possible, and
I
feel that I am
helping you in giving you advice of this kind.
Wishing you
all success in your studies, I am
Yours very truly,
J. H. Kennelworth.
Robert's second letter to Mr. Kennelworth
:
January
24,
1927.
My dear Mr. Kenitelworth
:
I have read your
letter with a great deal
of
interest.
I
appreciate your fatherly advice and know that you have my
interest at heart.
I appreciate your telling me of your experi-
ence in speculation and know that this can be the only result
where people only guess at the market, or follow tips.
I have
secured some books from New York and read a
great
deal
about the market, and I feel that I already know that there are
many pitfalls in the game of speculation, but if it can be made

--- PAGE 76 of 432 ---

66
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
a
science and followed
according
to
tlie
rules
laid down
in
the Bible, success and profits are sure.
Sir William Crookes said: "To stop
short
in any research
which
bids
fair
to
w^iden
the
gates
of knowledge,
to
recoil
from fear of
difficulties or adverse
criticism,
is to bring
re-
proach upon science."
I feel that I have my own life to live;
that
I must have
faith
in myself and
above
all,
have
the
faith which
is instilled in me through the study of the Bible.
I must neither fear
difficulties nor
criticism.
I must put my
theories and my discoveries to the
test.
The only way that I
can do that,
is to follow what I think
is right.
I have already made arrangements and sent my money to
a broker in New York, and have today bought 200
bales
of
July cotton at 13.80.
I am going to hold this
cotton.
If
it
goes up, as I am sure
it will this Spring and Summer, as mj^
profits accumulate, I am going to buy more on the way up.
I
believe
in what
the
Bible
says:
^'Prove
all things and hold
fast to that which
is good."
Jacob said:
"I have read in the tables of heaven whatsoever things
shall befall both of you and your children."
I believe in the stars, I believe in astrology, and I have figured
out my
destiny.
The Bible makes
it plain
that the
stars do
rule.
147th Psalm, 4th verse:
''He
tellest the number of the
stars, he
callest them
all
by name."
Dante said:
"Follow thy star—thou shalt see at last a glorious haven."
ISTapoleon and many
other great
leaders
of olden
times
fol-
lowed their
stars, and believed in them.
Mr. Kennelworth, I have gained a great deal of knowledge
by following
the
Bible.
I have gone
into
secret
places
to
pray, and have kept my discoveries
to myself.
I believe in
the saying:

--- PAGE 77 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
67
^'In
silence, by
silence, through
silence were
all things
made."
Daniel makes
it
clear that the
stars
influence:
"And
he
changeth
the
times and
the
seasons:
he
re-
moveth kings, and
setteth up kings: he giveth wisdom
unto the
v/ise, and knowledge
to them
that know un-
derstanding."
"He revealeth the deep and
secret things:
he knoweth
what
is
in
the
darkness, and
the
light
dwelleth with
him."
I
have
followed
the
teachings
and
admonitions
of
Solo-
mon, and realize that knowledge
is the greatest of
all things.
I
have
tried
to
get understanding and
believe
that
I
have
received it from the Bible, and that I must use
it.
I refer to Daniel:
"And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven
set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed: and
the kingdom
shall not be
left
to other
people,
but
it
shall break in pieces and consume
all these kingdoms,
and
it
shall stand forever."
Mr.
Kennelworth,
I
believe
this prophesy
is
yet
to be
ful-
filled.
I believe that the United States
is the kingdom which
is
never
to
be
destroyed;
that we
will
eventually
see
the
United
States of the World, and that this country, which
is
the land of love and liberty, will rule wisely all other nations.
I quote from Daniel:
"And whereas they commanded
to leave the stump
of
the
tree
roots;
thy kingdom
shall
be
sure unto
thee,
after that thou
shalt have known that the heavens do
rule."
I have demonstrated
this
to mean
that
the
planets
rule our
destinies.
It is right for us to understand them as Daniel did
and interpret
the
secret and hidden
things.
I believe the wise men of the East,
the
astrologists before
the birth of Jesus Christ, knew where and when he would be
bom by the study of the stars.
St. Matthew, Chapter 2
: 2

--- PAGE 78 of 432 ---

68
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
"Saying, Where
is he that
is bom King of the Jews?
for we have
seen
his
star
in
the
east, and
are come
to worship him."
This shows to me that the wise men believed that certain stars
arising would
indicate a great man would be born, a savior
of the world.
St. Matthew, Chapter 6
: 6 and 8
"But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and
when
thou
hast
shut
the
door,
pray
to
thy
Father,
which
is
in
secret;
and
thy
Father,
which
seeth
in
secret, shall reward thee openly."
^'Be not ye therefore like unto them:
for your Father
knoweth what
things ye
have
need
of before ye
ask
him."
I have prayed and studied in secret, and I believe I am going
to
receive my reward.
I
believe
that our heavenly
Father,
the ruler and maker of
this
universe, does know our needs,
and that he gives us understanding according to the way we
would receive it.
I was much impressed when I read
St. Matthew 6;33
"But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteous-
ness; and all these things shall be added unto you."
I have sought
that kingdom and
I have found
it where the
good book says it is :
"The kingdom of heaven is within you."
Again the good book says:
"If
ye
believe
in
me,
greater
things
than
these
shall
ye do."
I believe that I can and will do great things.
Ever
since
I was a small
boy, and used
to
kneel
at my
mother's knee, and she taught me first to pray, I have believed
in that great book and in God's power to guide me right and
give me understanding of
all
things.
My own father never
understood me
or had any sympathy with me or my
ideas,
which I
feel were far advanced.
My own brother was my
worst enemy, and I find that the Bible bears me out in this
"And a man^s foes shall be they of his own household."

--- PAGE 79 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
69
My father and brother opposed me because they did not un-
derstand me.
I firmly believe
that the Bible and the
Scriptures contain
the key to
all knowledge, and that
all a man has to do
is to
seek and he shall find, knock and
it shall be opened unto him.
I believe
it
is best for me to go away to New York as soon
as I can, away from my own people, for the good book says:
"A prophet
is not without honor, save in his own coun-
try, and in his own house."
The Bible points the way to read the signs and the
stars.
St. Matthew 12: 38, 39 and 40—
"Then
certain
of
the
scribes
and
Pharisees
answered,
saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee."
''But
he
answered
and
said
unto
them, An
evil
and
adulterous generation
seeketh
after a
sign; and
there
shall no sign be given to
it, but the sign of the prophet
Jonas ;"
''For
as Jonas was
three days and
three nights
in the
whale's
belly;
so
shall the Son of man be three days
and three nights in the heart of the earth."
I have read the Book of Jonah thru very
carefully, and
I
believe that
I understand what
the
Saviour meant when he
said
:
''No
sign
shall
be
given, but
the
sign
of
the
prophet
Jonas."
I
believe
there was a
secret meaning
in what he
said;
that
the Son of man be three days and three nights
in the heart
of the earth.
I believe that a man who understands the mean-
ing of that has
all the power under heaven and earth, as the
Bible says he
shall have.
I
believe that that
is the key to
the interpretation of the future.
I am sure I have found
it
and know how to apply
it.
I do not wish to burden you further with this long letter,
Mr. Kennelworth.
I am very much
interested
in my work

--- PAGE 80 of 432 ---

70
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
on future cycles, and if you are interested in what I can work
out on the future
cycles,
I
will be glad to send them to you
and let you watch them.
I have figured out the repetition of
each
cycle when wars
will
come.
I
believe
that
the wheat
prices forecast coming wars.
Through my study of the Bible,
I have determined
the major and minor time
factors which
repeat in the
history of nations, men and markets.
I trust that you will understand me and not feel that I do
not
appreciate your
advice when
I
started
speculating.
If
my new discoveries work, as I hope they will, I look forward
to
the day when you can
join me
in a
gi'eat campaign for
making money.
Assuring you
of my deep
appreciation
of
all your kind
advice, I am
Sincerely yours,
Robert Gordon.
On the same night, January 24th,
after Robert had
received a telegram from his broker in ^ew York, stat-
ing
that he had bought
200'
bales
of July
cotton
at
13.80, Robert
figured that
this would margin him to
12.80.
He was sure from his study that July cotton
would never decline to 13.25.
He sat down and wrote
:
My darling Marie
:
Love
is the greatest thing in the world.
It is
all powerful,
and your love for me
is going to make me the greatest man
in the world.
Today I have started on the road to fame and
fortune.
When we were together
last,
I
told you about my
discoveries of the cycles from the Bible and
said I was sure
that I could figure out what the stock, cotton and grain markets
were going
to
do;
that
I was going
to
start speculating
as
soon as I got the money.
You discouraged me.
Recently I wrote to Mr. Kennelworth
about the matter, and he
also discouraged me.
He told me

--- PAGE 81 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
71
what a hazardous and dangerous business
it
is.
I hope that
you won't scold me, because I have already bought 200 bales
of July cotton at 13.80 and put up $1000
as margin.
I am
sure that I am going to make money, and that
it
is going to
be the means of bringing us a great deal of happiness.
If
I can make money, I can complete my invention and discov-
eries, go to New York where I will have
all
the advantages,
and we can soon be married and realize our dream.
Ever since we made up
last
Fall, and
I was sure of you
and your
love,
I
have
been
very
ambitious
and
have
not
wasted
a
minute,
have
studied day and
night.
Wanted
to
prove to you that your faith in me was not to go unrewarded.
I believe that the great success of many men has been because
some good
little woman placed
a hand upon
their shoulder
and said:
"I trust you and love you."
I have read a great
deal of the history of the men of great achievement, and every
time I found back of the success the love of some good woman.
It
is the love of my mother and the
love of you which has
inspired me to greater things.
I am sure that success
is going
to crown my efforts.
Won't you give me your good wishes in
my start on the road to success?
With
all my
love,
I am
As ever,
Robert.
Sherman, Texas.
January 26, 1927.
My own dear Robert:
Your sweet letter just received.
ISTo, Robert, I am not going
to scold you, because I believe in you.
I know you are doing
what you think is right, regardless of what anyone else thinks.
I love you
all the more because you have confidence in your-
self, and above
all, confidence in the Holy Bible.
I want you
to know, Robert, that should you lose your money and should
things
go wrong,
disappointment
befall
you, my
love
will
never waiver.
My confidence in you
is supreme, and
I look
forward
to the day when I may bring you before my father

--- PAGE 82 of 432 ---

72
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
and show to him that my confidence was not misplaced and
that you have sustained my faith and hope.
I love you and will always love you, Robert,
if you never
make a dollar.
It
is not the money that counts with me, but
it does count with my father and mother, and I want you to
prove to them that without the help of anyone you can make
as much money as father has.
I know you
can, and I
will
always love you and stand by you.
Devotedly,
Your Marie.
On January 27th Mr. Kennelworth wrote to Robert
:
My dear Robert:
I have read your
letter with a great deal of interest and
understanding.
You are a deep thinker and a great reader.
Success
is bound
to
come
to
a mind
which
interprets
the
meaning of things.
I shall be very happy to have you write
me about the future cycles as you interpret them, and shall
watch them with a great deal of interest.
Now that you have taken the
step, Robert, and started in
speculating, I want to wish you success.
I admire your cour-
age in following your convictions and the faith you have
in
yourself, and
if
it
is possible for you
to win, I believe and
hope you will.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. Kennelworth.
Robert's reply:
My dear Mr. Kennelworth:
My great desire to make money, I want yon to understand,
is to do some good with
it and benefit my country, when she
will need
the
benefit most.
Please
read
Ezekiel
very
care-
fully, for I believe that Ezekiel is the greatest of all prophets.
He aptly describes an airplane which I can make that will be
a great
aid
in time of war.
I
believe that
Ezekiel
plainly
foretold the war yet to come which will be fought in the
air,

--- PAGE 83 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
73
and that the United States will be in great jeopardy, but will
finally win out.
So you
see, my object in speculating
is not
a
selfish motive
altogether,
but
to
help
others and
to
help
my country.
The following verses show that Ezekiel was predicting some-
thing
to happen
in
the
future and was carrying out God's
instructions.
Ezekiel 13
: 2 and 3
*'Son
of man, prophesy
against the prophets of Israel
that prophesy, and say thou unto them that prophesy
out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word of the Lord"
;
Ezekiel 14: 14, 16, 18 and 21—
"Though these three men, Noah, Daniel and
Job, were
in
it, they should deliver but their own souls by their
righteousness, saith the Lord God."
"Though these three men were
in
it, as I
live, saith the
Lord God,
they
shall
deliver
neither
sons nor daugh-
ters;
they only
shall be
delivered, but the land
shall
be desolate."
"Though these three men were
in
it, as I
live, saith the
Lord God,
they
shall
deliver
neither
sons nor daugh-
ters, but they only shall be delivered themselves."
"For thus saith the Lord God, How much more when I
send my
four
sore
judgments
upon
Jerusalem,
the
sword, and the famine, and the noisome beast, and the
pestilence, to
cut
off from
it man and beast?"
Ezekiel 17:3—
"And say, thus saith the Lord God, A great eagle with
great wings, long-winged,
full of
feathers, which had
divers colours, came unto Lebanon, and took the highest
branch of the cedar":
Ezekiel 21
: 30—
"Shall
I
cause
it
to
return
unto
his
sheath?
I
will
judge thee in the place where thou wast created, in the
land of thy nativity."
From
this, I believe that more famines, earthquakes, pesti-
Uence and wars
are yet to come and that the noisome beast

--- PAGE 84 of 432 ---

74
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
referred
to
is
the
airplane.
If we make
calculations from
the date and place of birth,
I think we can determine what
our future
is to
be, and in
this way
live according to cause
and
effect, which
is God's divine law.
When I stated that I believed Ezekiel the greatest prophet
of
all, my authority
is found in Ezekiel 28
: 3
^'Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel.
There
is no secret
they can hide from thee."
Daniel was known to be a great prophet and astrologer.
In
his prophecies, he foretold war, pestilence and famine to come
upon
this
earth, and by a proper study of the
repetition of
cycles we can determine the time when important events will
take place in the future.
I am enclosing an
article
v>^hich I have written on Future
Cycles, and
also one on the Cycles of Transportation.
Thanking you for your interest in my work,
I am
Sincerely yours,
Robert Gordon.

--- PAGE 85 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
75
CHAPTER VII
Future Cycles
January 28, 1927.
IK
making my predictions I use geometry and mathe-
matics,
just
as
the
astronomer
does,
based
on
immutable laws.
I am a believer in the Bible.
It
is the most wonder-
ful book ever written, a book of science, philosophy and
religion.
I claim that
all scientific laws are laid down
in the
Bible
if
a person knows where
to
find them.
Refer to St. Matthew 7 :7, which says
:
"Ask and
it shall be given you, seek and ye
shall
find,
knock and
it shall be opened unto you."
1 hold that the Bible contains the key to the process by
which man may know all there is to know of the future,
if he will only seek diligently for the rules laid down
in the Holy Book.
My calculations are based on the cycle theory and on
mathematical sequences.
History repeats
itself.
That
is
w^hat
I
have
always
contended,—that
in
order
to
know and predict the future of anything you only have
to look up what has happened in the past and get a cor-
rect base or starting point.
My authority for stating
that the future
is but a repetition of the past
is found
in the Bible.

--- PAGE 86 of 432 ---

76
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
Read Eccl. 1:9:
"The
thing
that
hath
been,
it
is
that which
shall
be;
and
that which
is
done,
is
that which
shall be done:
and there
is no new thing under the sun."
Again
"That which has been
is now and
that which
is
to be
hath already been."
This makes
it plain that everything works according to
past
cycles, and that history repeats
itself in the lives
of men, nations and the stock market.
We are told that the great continent of Atlantis, for
centuries submerged under
the
Atlantic
Ocean,
pos-
sessed a
civilization greater than ours of today.
The
people of Atlantis had their telephones, wireless, radios
and
airplanes.
There
is
considerable
truth
in
that
statement.
According
to mathematical
sequence,
the
wonderful inventions that brought comfort and conven-
ience
to the Atlantians
are due
to appear
again, and
we are now only on the threshold of another great age.
Remember, everything in this universe
is
elliptical
or circular in motion; that applies both to the abstract
and
the
concrete,
the
mental,
physical and
spiritual.
Every thought you think makes a circle, and
it comes
back to you.
It may take years but you will get the
effects, good or evil, according as the thought was either
good or evil.
That is a truth we should learn, and the
world will be the better for
it.
In making my calculations on the stock market,
or
any future event,
I
get the past history and
find out
what cycle we are in and then predict the curve for the

--- PAGE 87 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
77
future, which is a repetition of past market movements.
The great law of vibration
is based on like producing
like.
Like causes produce like effects.
Wireless teleg-
raphy, the phonograph and the radio are based on this
law.
The limit
of future predictions based on exact
mathematical law is only restricted by lack of knowledge
of
correct data on past history to work from.
It
is
just as easy to figure 100 years or 1000 years in the
future as one or two years ahead^ if you have the correct
starting point and know the cycle which is going to be
repeated.
A few years ago even
scientific men, not alone the
public, would have laughed at such a thing and refused
to believe
it.
But mathematical science, which
is the
only
real
science
that
the
entire
civilized world has
agreed upon,
furnishes unmistakable proof of history
repeating itself and shows that the cycle theory, or har-
monic analysis,
is the only thing that we can rely upon
to ascertain the future.
Sometime ago an article appeared in the New York
American commenting on the writings of Sir Arthur
Evans,
foremost
English
archeologist, who published
*The Palace of Minos," a book concerning the ancient
City of Minotaur.
He described the excavation on the
Isle of Crete in the Mediterranean Sea, in which they
found modern apartment houses, bath tubs and corsets,
the same as used today.
The plumbing that they found
was so excellent that it is still working after thousands
of years.
It
is estimated that the ancient city was de-
stroyed over 5000 years ago, or about 3500 b.c.
The
fact that a long time elapsed before apartment houses

--- PAGE 88 of 432 ---

78
THE TUNNEr THRU THE AIR
became popular again is another proof of history repeat-
ing itself and shows
"There
is no new tiling under the sun,"
but that we simply resurrect the old ones.
^^How do I
forecast future
cycles ?" you may
ask.
In order to forecast future cycles, the most important
thing is to begin right, for if we have the right begin-
ning, we will get the right ending.
If we know the
cause of the
effect, then there can be no doubt about
predicting the future event or effect.
I have always looked for causes and when once I
determine a cause I can always be sure of the
effect
or future event which I
predict.
IT IS 'NOT MY
AIM TO EXPLAIN" THE CAUSE OF CYCLES.
The general public is not yet ready for it and probably
would not understand or believe it if I explained
it.
In every law of nature there is a major and a minor
;
a
positive,
a negative, and a
neutral.
Therefore,
in
cycles there must be a lesser, a greater and intermediate
cycle,
or
cycles
within
cycles.
Like
Ezekiel
says:
"Wheel within a wheel."
Time is the great factor that proves all things.
The
measurement of time
first originated and
is based on
the earth's motion upon
its
axis.
One of the smallest
cycles, or time factors, which repeats regularly in things
that are very active and have a high vibration,
is the
four-minute cycle.
The reason for this is that the earth
moves one degree every four minutes.
The next cycle
is 24 hours, the complete time required for the earth
to make one revolution upon its axis.
That is how man

--- PAGE 89 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
79
measured his cycle of a day.
The next important cycle
is one year, the time required for the earth to move
around
the
sun.
This brings about the four seasons
of the year.
These are the minor cycles.
The major cycles run in 100 and 5000 years with
variations based on minor cycles.
In order to be sure
of world events and important changes,
it
is necessary
to go back at least 1000 years and prove up the cycles.
We find ample proof of the 1000-year cycle in the Bible
:
"A
little one
shall become a thousand and a small one
a strong nation; I the Lord, will hasten
it in his time."
Also
"One day
is with
the Lord
as
a thousand
years, and
a thousand
years
as one
day."
Another evidence of the 1000-year cycle:
"And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which
is
the
Devil,
and
Satan, and bound him
a thousand
years."
If we go back 1000 years, we can find ample proof
of how history has been repeating itself in the past few
years.
From about a.d. 916 to 923 Europe went thru
about the same
conditions
that
prevailed
1000 years
later or around 1914 to 1920.
During the first period
referred
to, Europe experienced wars, panics and crop
failures.
History
shows
that
in
916
agriculture
in
the British Isles was
at
its lowest ebb and that there
was great scarcity of wheat and corn.
Very few people
were engaged in tilling the soil on account of wars.
The

--- PAGE 90 of 432 ---

80
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
same conditions prevailed 1000 years later in 1916 and
1917, when this country was called on to furnish food
to starving Europe and send men and money to save
their armies from defeat.
In 917, Constantinople was
besieged by the Bulgarians and war continued to 919.
We know that war prevailed in Turkey and
all over
Europe between 1914 and
1919.
In 923
there was
Civil War in France and 1000 years later, or in 1923,
France again had her troubles and
is
still having them.
Another proof of the 1000- and 2000-year
cycle
is
evidenced by a lecture given by Prof. Hans Delbruck
of the University of Berlin at the University College of
London,
just
before the outbreak
of the World War
in 1914.
He said:
"One
of
his
first
observations
in
comparing
the
phe-
nomena
of
the
history
of wars
in
the
different
ages
was the likeness between the battles in which the Swiss
conquered Duke
Charles
the
Bold, and
the
battles
in
which the Greeks overcame the Persians.
They had in
an interval of 2000 years exactly the same arms and the
same political institutions fighting against each other."
What proof of the 100-year cycle do we get from 100
years ago of what has happened in the past few years ?
In the United States, between 1814 and 1822, we had
crop
failures, war and yellow
fever,
especially from
1819 to 1822.
In 1821 Persia was visited with Asiatic
cholera.
In 1823
cholera broke out
in
several
porta
along
the
Mediterranean.
During
the same
period,
corresponding to 100 years ago, the United States had
the terrible epidemic of influenza and in Europe, Russia
was visited with famine, cholera and
all kinds of dis-

--- PAGE 91 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
81
eases,
killing millions.
In 1822
there was a famine
in Ireland and 100 years later they were winding up
their troubles and trying to make settlement and peace
with England.
In 1922 China and Russia were both
suffering from famines, another proof of the 100-year
cycle.
Some more important evidence of this cycle
is
found by going back 100 years in history, in which we
find that in 1819 the first steamship crossed the Atlan-
tic Ocean.
In 1919, 100 years later, the British diri-
gible R-34 made
a successful
flight from Scotland to
Mineola, Long Island.
Where do we find proof in the Bible that the great
World War was coming ?
The proof that
it
is possible to make predictions of
wars,
famines,
pestilences
and
general
world
events
thousands of years in advance,
is plainly substantiated
by the Bible.
The great World War was prophesied
in the Book of Revelation.
What proof do we find in the Bible of what events
or conditions will follow wars?
What does the Bible
say of the great World War which St. John the Divine
foretold in the Book of Revelation ?
"For
nation
shall
rise
against
nation,
and
kingdom
against kingdom
; and there shall be famines, and pesti-
lences, and earthquakes in divers places."
Again the Bible says
:
"Immediately after the tribulation of these days shall the
sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give light, and
the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the
heavens shall be shaken."

--- PAGE 92 of 432 ---

82
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Again,
it says:
"The Lord hath
called for a famine; and
it
shall also
come upon the land seven years."
And seven years from
the
close
of the World War,
Europe had the terrible crop failures,
strikes, business
depression and calamities, which occurred in 1923
to
1926.
Some evidence of long-range predictions which have
been fulfilled, that has attracted attention, appeared in
the New York
America/n,
January
29,
1922.
The
article refers to an amazing prophecy of the twelfth cen-
tury made by Malachy, a priest, in a.d. 1139, in which
he foretold accurately the personality of the Papal suc-
cession by means of mottoes and numbers.
He foretold
the long struggles which Ireland would have to go thru
and the eventual peace, which has been recently signed.
His prophecy on the future Pope
is
~Eo.
266.
Fides
Intrepida,
which
means—"Unwavering
Paith,
un-
shaken belief in the face of danger; unfaltering devo-
tion."
To those who understand numbers,
^'266'^
re-
veals some remarkable events that are to follow the elec-
tion of the new Pope.
It shows that wars are not yet
over and that Europe will have troublesome conditions,
and in fact, the entire world must yet pass thru a very
evil period between 1926 and 1932.
It also confirms
both the major and minor
cycles which
indicate that
the years 1928 and 1930 to 1932
are to be years of
famine, depressing business conditions and panic, not
only in Europe, but in the United States.
The maxi-
mum evil of the great 1000-year cycle, which will not

--- PAGE 93 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
83
be
completed
until
1932
to
1934,
will bring
serious
troubles to the United States.
Another bad period for
the United States will be 1940 to 1944.
The question arises
:—If we can know the future,
is
it of value to us ?
It has been well said
: ^Torewamed
is forearmed,''
but I prefer
to
look
to the Bible
for
authority and proof.
When Pharaoh had his wonderful
dream, he went to Joseph to have it interpreted.
Joseph
said:
"And the seven thin and
ill favored kine that came up
after them are seven years; and the seven empty years,
blasted
with
the
east
wind,
shall
be
seven
years
of
famine."
Listen to the advice Joseph gave him:
"Let them gather
all the food of those good years that
come,
and
lay up
corn
under
the hand
of
Pharaoh,
and
let
them
keep
food
in
the
cities.
The
people
throughout the land should take warning and prepare
for the unfavorable years
to
follow."
The Bible is the BOOK of all books, and if we only
study it and understand it, we can gain a proper knowl-
edge of all things. I believe it the duty of any man who
understands
science
and
mathematics
and
the
cycle
theory, and knows what
is coming^ to warn the people
in
order
that
they may
prepare
for
trouble
ahead.
Many will
scoff and laugh and refuse to believe until
it
is too
late.
The Bible
is
full of references where
God has given us signs by which we may know what is
coming,
if we will only believe them.
He says
:
"0, ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky;
but can ye not discern the signs of the times?"

--- PAGE 94 of 432 ---

84
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Again the Bible says
:
"And God
said, Let
there be
lights
in
the
firmament,
of the heaven
to
divide
the day from
the
night, and
let them be for
signs, and for seasons, and for days,
and years."
How few people are willing to study the Bible in order
to understand the signs and discern the future and profit
by
it.

--- PAGE 95 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
85
CHAPTER Vin
Cycles of Teansportation"
THE coming mode of transportation will be by air-
plane and I
feel
sure they will be used
in the
great war to come.
The Bible tells us that Enoch, who
was the seventh from Adam—a number generally re-
ferred to
as divine—^was translated to heaven for his
faith at the age of 365 years.
This event took place
about 3017
b.c.
I believe that at that time they had
all modern inventions and that Enoch went up in an
airplane.
The writer of the book, probably not having
seen an airplane before and seeing Enoch go into the
sky, thought that he had gone to heaven.
We are now
in the 5000-year cycle, from the time that Enoch was
transferred to heaven, and this
indicates the progress
of the airplane at this time.
Elijah was also translated
to heaven in a cloud of fire, in 896 b.c.
I believe this,
too, was an airplane.
Since the chariot was seen blazing
with some kind of fire or gas, the recorder thought
it
was just something to take Elijah to heaven.
Man first traveled by land, then conquered the water
and last, the greatest feat of
all,
is conquering the air,
which was plainly foretold in the Bible.
In 1602
there was a railway built in 'New
Castle,
England, operated by horsepower.
In 1776, the
first

--- PAGE 96 of 432 ---

86
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
iron rails were laid, the first important step leading to
railways.
In July, 1801, there was a completed tram
road
from
Croyden
to
Wandsworth,
England.
In
1802, the
first high-pressure locomotive was invented.
In 1813, William Hedley built a locomotive.
In 1824,
the first locomotive, by George Stephenson, traveled six
miles per hour.
In 1829, the Rocket made a speed of
fifteen miles per hour.
In 1834, the Eirefly Locomotive
made a speed of twenty miles an hour, and in
1839,
the INorth Star made a speed of thirty-seven miles per
hour.
Man used the
air as power for sailing vessels long
years before he ever dreamed that
it could be used to
travel thru by airplane.
The first idea of steam navi-
gation was patented by Jonathan in 1713, and later in
1783,
a steamboat by Pitch.
In
1793, the
first
real
steamboat by Eulton.
On August
9,
1803,
Fulton's
steamboat, "The Claremont,'' made its first trip up the
Hudson.
In 1807, Eulton started a steamboat line on
the Hudson.
On July
15,
1819, the
first steamship
made a trip from !N"ew York to Liverpool in twenty-six
days.
In
October,
1829,
a locomotive by steam
car-
riages started in Liverpool.
In June, 1838, the "Great
Western" made a trip from
Bristol,
arrived in 'New
York, making the voyage in eighteen days.
The next
record for ocean
travel was made
in 1851 when
the
"Pacific" crossed the Atlantic in 9 days, 19 hours and
25 minutes.
In 1917, a German submarine boat made
a successful trip from Germany to Baltimore.
The advent of automobiles, or gas engines, began in
1877, when the first gas engine was invented by Otto.

--- PAGE 97 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
87
Ib 1879, a gasoline motor was invented by Selden.
In
1892, the
first automobile was operated by C. A. Dur-
yeSL.
Note that this was repeating the 500-year cycle,
and 100 years before the first attempt was made to start
an iron railway, and in 1783, the
first time a balloon
went up which carried a passenger.
In our modern times the first attempt by man to con-
quer the air by means of plane or balloon was in June,
1783, when Joseph and Stephen Montgolfier built the
first balloon, but
it carried no passengers.
In iTovem-
ber, 1783, for the first time man went up in a balloon
that sailed over Paris.
In 1859, John Wise sailed in
a balloon from St. Louis to Henderson,
IvT. Y., in twenty
hours;
the
greatest
distance accomplished up
to
that
time.
In 1900, Count Zeppelin flew the first dirigible.
In ]^ovember, 1903, "Wilbur and Orville Wright made
their
first
flight in an airplane which rose under
its
own power.
l^Tote that his was 100 years after Fulton's
first steamboat went up the Hudson, again repeating the
100-year cycle.
In July, 1908, Glenn H. Curtiss flew
his first airplane.
In July, 1909, Charles K. Hamilton
flew from
'New York
to
Philadelphia—seventy-four
miles.
Note 100
years before
this,
in
1807, Fulton
started the first steamship line up the Hudson.
From 1914 to 1918, airplanes were used in the great
World War; 100 years before steamers began crossing
the Atlantic Ocean for the first time.
In June, 1919, first
non-stop flight from St. John's, Newfoundland, to Ire-
land.
In July, 1919, the R-34 made a successful flight
from
Scotland
to
Mineola,
Lons;
Island.
The R-34
made the trip in 64 hours and 13 minutes. One hundred

--- PAGE 98 of 432 ---

88
THE TUNNEL THRU .THE AIR
years previous to this
tlie
first
fast steamsliip crossed
\
the Atlantic.
In May,
1923,
Lieut. Macready and Kelly made a \
non-stop
flight from New York
to San Diego,
Cali-
fornia.
In July,
1923,
sunrise to sunset
flight from
New York to San Francisco.
The flight was made hy
Russell L. Maughan.
March I7th
to September
28,
1924, L. H. Smith and Lee Wade flew around the world
the flrst time.
May, 1926, Richard E. Byrd circled the
North Pole with the dirigible.
May 21, 1927, Charles
A. Lindbergh made the first successful flight across the
Atlantic from New York to Paris.
Note how the airplane followed 100 years later after
the fast steamer across the Atlantic.
As railroad and
ocean transportation made rapid progress from 1807 to
1838, so is airplane transportation making rapid prog-
ress and I predict that in 1938, airplanes will be travel-
ing at the rate of 1000 miles an hour to all parts of the
earth, carrying passengers and freight.
My interpreta-
tion of the cycles to repeat in future indicates that from
^1928 to 1932, one of the greatest battles of all history
iwill be fought in the
air.
In the next few years
air-
planes will be making successful trips around the world
and carrying passengers.
Man has succeeded in traveling on the earth by steam,
gas and electricity.
The automobile solved the problem
of motor transportation without
rail.
The water was
first conquered in a crude canoe, next with a sailing
vessel, then the fast steamers and later the submarine
by which man can travel secretly under the water.
The
next and last great conquest was the air, and as nations

--- PAGE 99 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK PROM 1940
89
have fought battles on the land, on the water and used
the submarine for successful warfare under the water,
the next and last great step in transportation will be in
the
air.
It
is but natural
to expect that the greatest
battle of all will take place in the air when all modern
inventions will be used to destroy human life.
As stated
in the Bible, unless the time be shortened, no human
being will be left on this earth, but the Good Book has
promised
that
the
time
will
be
shortened.
!N"ations
will try this new mode to conquer each other before the
United
Kingdom,
spoken
of
in
the
Bible,
can
be
realized.

--- PAGE 100 of 432 ---

90
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
CHAPTER IX
SUPPLEME^^TnsTG
his
former
letter,
Robert
Gordon wrote:
Dear Mr. Kennelworth
:
I am anxious to make some money in my cotton deals and
get into wheat for the big advance that I figure
is coming this
Spring and Summer.
Then I want to be in position to buy
some Right Aeroplane and Sell Major Motors and other stocks
short, because I believe that in the next few years I can make
a
fortune buying
Right
Aeroplane
stock
and
selling
short
Major Motors.
Just
as
the
railroad locomotive attained great speed from
1834 to 1839, and the big steamers cut down the time between
New York and Europe, so will airplanes 100 years later cut
the time around the world and to all points of the world.
Just
as the automobile has supplanted the railway passenger trains
in carrying passengers across the country, so will the airplane
take the place of railroads and automobiles in transportation
through the
air, because
it will be much faster and
safer.
I
believe that the airplane described by Ezekiel
is going to be
the model of a great plane in the future and I would like
to
make money enough
to be
the man
to
build
the
first
plane
according to the plans laid down in the Bible.
Mr. Kennelworth, I want to help you and show my appreci-
ation for
all your kindness to me.
I would like to help you
make back the money that you lost in the big slump in stocks
in the
Fall of 1919, and
believe that
if you
will buy some
July or October cotton right now, and hold
it, you will make
a
lot of money.
To show your faith in me, buy at least 100
bales.
Then along about
the 5th of
April, we
will have
a

--- PAGE 101 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK PROM 1940
91
lot of
big
profits made and can buy some wheat and com
as I figure that wheat and corn are going to start up the early
part
of
April and
advance
twenty-five
to
thirty
cents
per
bushel.
Haven't you faith enough in me and faith enough in
the Bible to risk a few hundred
dollars and make back
all
the money you have lost?
Of course you don't need
it, Mr.
Kennelworth, but
it would make me very happy
to
see you
make some money, anyway.
Sincerely,
Robert.
After reading over Robert's
letters and explanation
of the cycles, Mr. Kennelworth answered
:
February 1, 1927.
My dear Robert:
Your amazing
letter and forecast
of the future cycles,
re-
ceived.
I am surprised to find one so young possessed of so
much knowledge.
It shows that you are a deep student and
have been searching for the hidden mysteries.
You
will
re-
ceive your reward.
I have faith in the Bible and in you, Robert.
In 1919, I
followed
tips and
lost a
lot
of money.
Now
I must have
enough faith in you to risk a little money on your predictions,
based on the Bible, so I telegraphed my brokers in New York
today and bought 500 bales of July
cotton
at
13.70.
If
it
goes up, I am going to hold
it and the money I make on
it, I
am going to give to you and Marie when you are married as
a wedding present, or if you need the money to promote your
invention, I will let you have
it to use for that purpose.
Please keep me posted on your
studies and on your new
discoveries.
Always
feel free to come and talk your matters
over with me.
I am always interested in anything that you
liave to write or talk to me about.
Have faith
in you and
believe you are right about the great war to come.
It
is plain that the nations in Europe are rapidly getting
ready for war, and, of course, it will be with airplanes.
While

--- PAGE 102 of 432 ---

92
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
I hate to think the United
States
will
again be
called
into
war, at the same time I realize that all of the foreign countries
are jealous of us, because we have such enormous gold supply
and have grown
so
prosperous.
The United
States
is now
the banker of the world, and while it was no fault of ours that
the great World War occurred, which resulted to our benefit
by transfer of gold from other nations to us, at the same time
they are jealous and have a real hatred for America.
So you are probably
right
in preparing
to
build a
great
airplane to be used
in defending your country.
Such noble
intentions, my boy,
fill my heart with pride.
I am going to
drive out to the farm to see your mother next Sunday
if
I
can get time.
Want to have a talk with her and
tell her of
your
brilliant
achievement.
It makes
every
mother's
heart
glad to know that her boy
is trying to accomplish something.
I feel sure that you are going to accomplish your aims, Robert,
and I am with you always.
Sincerely yours,
J. H. Kennelworth.
After hearing from Mr.
Kennelworth,
Robert was
very happy, and of course, had to share his happiness
with Marie.
February 5, 1927.
Sweet Marie:
I am very happy on this Saturday night, and nothing could
make me happier than to be with you.
I feel that I have won
a great victory.
I have put my theories up
to Mr. Kennel-
worth, explained
all that I could about my discoveries of the
cycles
in the
Bible, and urged him
to buy some cotton and
make back the money that he
lost in 1919.
He said that he
had faith in me and the Bible so he bought 500 bales of July
cotton at 13.70 as I suggested.
While the market hasn't gone up much since I bought mine,
at the same time it
is holding steady and I am sure that
it
is
going up.
I believe Mr. Kennelworth
is going to make a lot

--- PAGE 103 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
93
of money on his cotton and I want to see him make
it because
he
is an honest, whole-hearted man and has done everything
he could to help me.
The $500 bonus he gave me in January
enabled me to have margin enough to buy the cotton, and if I
make a great success I will feel that I owe him a great debt
of gratitude, because he has really helped me get a
start.
Don't think I fail to appreciate
all you are doing, my little
sweetheart, and the faith that you have in me.
I am looking
forward to the day when I will make Wall Street hum with
you standing by my
side.
Nothing would be
left for me to
work for if it wasn't the hope of having you, and the happiness
that you can bring.
Money will not mean anj'^thing except to
accomplish my purpose, help my country and buy the things
that will make you happy.
Love
is indeed the greatest thing in the world and you are
the greatest woman in the world.
With your
love, there
is
nothing that I cannot do.
You are my last thought when I
go to sleep at night and the first when I wake in the morning.
Everything I do, I always think is for you.
Your sweet little
letters are always so encouraging and your supreme faith in
me urges me on to greater things.
With
all the love that my heart can send, I am as ever
Your loving
Robert.
Monday, February 7, 1927.
My own dear Robert
:
Your
letter received
this a.m.
It
is the happiest Monday
morning that I have ever had.
Am glad
to know that Mr.
Kennelworth
is backing up your judgment.
If I had some
money I
certainly would send
it to you to buy some cotton
for me.
Maybe I will have some in a few months, because I
am saving something every week from my allowance which
Papa sends me
Every night when I kneel to pray, I ask God to give you
strength and confidence, Robert, and I know that he can and
will help you.
It makes me very happy to know in all of your

--- PAGE 104 of 432 ---

94
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
plans for the future, you think of me, and I am going to try
to prove worthy of that great love.
You are
so
noble, pure
and unselfish; always thinking of others and thinking of what
you can do to help protect your country in time of war.
I do hope and pray as your mother does, that the days of
wars may pass away;
that man may cease
to
fight and may
know and understand each
other,
setting their differences on
the basis of love.
I will welcome that day, and hope that I
may stand by your side, when there will be no more wars and
our loved ones will not be taken away to war.
Write me
often,
Robert, and know
that you have
all
the
love that the heart of one
little woman can send.
Your own
Marie.
The month of Eebmary slowly passed away.
Cotton
was very slow and inactive, but on February 23rd,
it
started up and went up fast.
On March 2nd, July cot-
ton had advanced to 14.80, and Robert had a profit of
$1,000.00
and
Mr.
Kennelworth
had
a
profit
of
$2,500.00.
Robert was very much elated over his prog-
ress and the
profit for Mr. Kennelworth.
He wrote
Marie how the market w^as working out according to his
prediction ; how the money was piling up ; and that he
would soon have money to start on his invention and new
discovery.
Marie was very happy over Robert's success
and wrote encouraging
letters.
Mr. Kennelworth was
also very happy and congratulated Robert on being able
to buy cotton very close to the low level in January.
March was the month
to
bring disappointment
to
Robert.
Cotton started to decline and by the middle
of the month had declined to around 13.75 wiping out
all Robert's and Mr.
Kennelworth's
profits,
but
still
leaving their
capital
intact.
Robert was not discour-

--- PAGE 105 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
95
aged.
He told Mr. Kennelworth tliat tlie flood was sure
to come
in
the Mississippi Valley during April and
May, the Spring would be late, and the price would be
sure to advance.
He had no thought of selling out his
cotton and urged Mr. Kennelworth to hold his, which
he did.
Marie had become very much interested in the market
and was reading the paper every day and watching the
prices.
She saw the price decline to around 13.Y5 and
knew
that
Robert's
profits would now be wiped
out.
She felt very sorry for him and wrote him
:
March 15th, 1927.
My dear Robert:
I have not heard from you in several days.
I see that the
market has declined to where you now have no profit left on
your
deal.
Do not
get
discouraged;
I have
great
faith
in
you and believe that you are yet going to come out
all right
and make a lot of money.
Why don't you hold your cotton,
and
tell Mr. Kennelworth
to
hold
his, because my
intuition
tells me that you are certainly right?
I have been saving money every week from my allowance.
A few weeks ago I wrote Papa and told him that I had to
have some
extra money and
asked him
if he
could
let me
have
$300.00.
He
sent the money
at
once,
so
I now have
$400.00 and I am sending
it to you.
I want you to buy me
100 bales of July cotton.
I was talking with a broker from
Dallas a few days
ago, and he says
that he
believes cotton
will go up even tho
it may be slow for a
while. Take
the
money, and
if you can get the broker to buy a hundred for
me, do so.
This is my faith in you, and in the Bible.
So don't
be afraid to buy for me, Robert.
I am just as game as you are.
With
all love and wishing you luck.
As
ever, your own
Marie.

--- PAGE 106 of 432 ---

96
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
This letter was a great consolation and encouragement
to Robert.
He had begun to feel a little blue because
cotton had declined.
IsTot that he thought
it wouldn't
go up again, but he was sorry that he had failed to get
the profits.
He took Marie's money and on March 17th bought
100 bales of July cotton at 13.90.
The cotton market
was slow during the balance of March, but
it did not
decline, and Robert was greatly encouraged.
The mar-
ket was slow again during April, but prices were holding
steady and Robert
felt encouraged that they did not
decline.
On April 20th a flood started in the Missis-
sippi
Valley.
The Spring was
late and planting
de-
layed.
Cotton started to advance and went up fast, July
reaching 15.40 by April
25th.
Robert's
profits were
now piling up
fast, and Marie had a
profit of over
$700.00 on her 100 bales.
Mr. Kennelworth had held
his cotton and profits were accumulating fast for him.
He congratulated Robert on his wonderful prediction
that the flood came as he forecast.
Marie was watching
the papers so she wired Robert as follows
:
you are a wonder
the market
is, making good and we
are going to win
i am with you always
love
Marie.
Robert now began to see
possibilities of his dream
being realized, and thought in a few months he could
resign his position and go to iN^ew York and continue to
speculate in order to make money enough to build his
airplane and work out ideas for his other discoveries.
So he wrote Marie this letter
:

--- PAGE 107 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
97
April 30th, 1927.
My darling Marie,
The Lord has been good to us.
Fortune
is smiling on us.
Cotton
is on
its way up.
In a few weeks will be up around
17e a pound, and we will have a lot of money made.
I bought
another 100
bales
today and
Mr.
Kennelworth bought 500
bales more.
It won't be long until I have money enough to
go
to New York.
When I
go,
I want you
to go with me,
because I cannot go there and succeed alone without you.
I
need your love and encouragement, and want you
to marry
me and start to New York together.
Of course
I don't
like
to have you leave school before you graduate, but I feel
it
is
best for you to go with me.
Write and let me know what you think about
it.
With all my love,
Your Robert.
Marie's reply:
Sunday, May 1st, 1927.
My dear Robert,
I have just received your
letter, and I am happy to know
that the cotton
is moving your way.
I know that you love
and trust me and I want you to know that I love and trust
you, so please try to understand me.
While I have the great-
est faith in you and know that you will succeed, I
feel that
marrying you just now might handicap you and prevent your
success.
When once I am yours, Robert, you will have realized
your
fondest
hope, and
possibly your
ambition may wane.
You will fight harder to win if you
still cling to the hope of
winning me.
They say that hope and anticipation are greater
than realization, Robert.
Never cease to hope for I ajn with
you.
Even when I am not with you, trust me as I trust you,
for I love only you.
I am going to tell you a dream that I had a few nights ago.
I saw you a great success.
Fortune was smiling on you.
The
world was at your feet, but I seemed to see a great tragedy
follow
this.
It seemed I
left you in a mysterious way and

--- PAGE 108 of 432 ---

98
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
then came back to you just as mysteriously.
Now, don't think
that
I do not want
to go with you, Robert, and
don't think
that
I
believe
in dreams, but somehow
it
has made a
great
impression on me.
Of course you know that father would never consent to me
leaving
school
to marry
you, and
if we married, we would
have
to run away.
Would
it not be best
for you
to go to
New York, as you have planned, work on your invention, and
let my love and faith guide you to success?
You could
live
for my
love, which you have
always
said was
the
greatest
thing in the world.
You have
all my love and
will always
have
it.
I could continue in school and later, if you became despon-
dent and
could
not
get along without me, remember
that
I
would have faith and love enough to give up father, mother,
and everything else and come to you.
I want to do what I
feel is best for your future, Robert, and I hope that you will
believe me and see
it that way.
I want you to come over to
see me next Sunday, so we can talk over all your future plans.
With all of my love for you always,
Your Maeie.
When Robert received Marie's
letter,
lie was disap-
pointed, but felt that when he saw her and talked mat-
ters over, he could get her to change her mind, give up
school,
if necessary, marry him and go to
ISTew York
with him. He had heard and read much of the pitfalls
of the great City of New York and felt that he did not
care to venture there alone without Marie with him as
his wife.
While his old school-mate and chum, Walter
Kennelworth, was in New York and could work with
him and be a great help and comfort, he felt that Marie,
his one great
inspiration, was
absolutely necessary
to
his success and that he must persuade her to go with
him to New York.

--- PAGE 109 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
99
On Sunday, May 1st, Robert went to visit his mother
in the country.
lie found that Mr. Kennelworth had
been there and told her of Robert's success and his faith
in him.
Robert's mother was very happy when he told
her that cotton was advancing and he was making money
rapidly and Mr. Kennelworth was making money ; that
Marie had such great faith in him that she had put up
her only $400.00 and bought 100
bales of cotton and
now had a profit of about $1,000.00'.
Robert
told
his mother of
his
plans.
That he
ex-
pected within a few months to go to ISFew York, estab-
lish himself there, and speculate in order to make money
so that he could build his great airplane according to
Ezekiel's plan and prepare to help his country in time
of war.
Mrs. Gordon was very happy to learn of lier
boy's success.
She was sad when he began to talk about
war.
Robert assured her that the Bible plainly foretold
the great war which was to be fought in the
air and
that it was his duty to help protect his country.
While
his mother admired his patriotism, she again referred
to the dream that she had had years before, about a great
war which would come and in which she thought that
Hobert lost his life in San Francisco.
She talked to Robert of his future and told him she
hoped he would be a preacher.
Robert confided to her
that he
could never be an orthodox
minister,
for he
could not preach and teach the things which the ortho-
dox ministers were teaching.
He did not believe in a
personal devil or believe in Hell, but believed in a God
of Love and Justice.
He did not believe that God would
inflict upon any of his children eternal punishment but

--- PAGE 110 of 432 ---

100
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
thouglit that whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also
reap and that we receive our reward here upon earth.
He told her that the Bible plainly said that the king-
dom of heaven is within us and he believed
it.
If we
kept our conscience
clear and did unto
others
as
"we
would
like
to have them do unto
us, he believed we
would find our heaven and our reward here upon earth.
Said that times and conditions were changing rapidly
;
that the new inventions and discoveries caused men to
think differently than in the old days
; that the old re-
ligious ideas would pass away and give place to more
liberal, advanced ideas.
He hoped to live to see the day
when men would not only be too proud to
fight, but
would be too full of love for their fellowmen to
settle
disputes with the sword.
This was God's plan and
it
would come to pass this way, and he believed that he
could be a great power for peace and hoped to live to
see a world of peace with all nations united under one
kingdom and one God, the God of Love and Justice.
Mrs. Gordon felt that her faith in Robert had been
justified and that she understood him better than his
father and brother.
He told his mother of his hopes
for an early marriage with Marie and that when he
went to 'New York, he wanted to take Marie with him
as his wife.
His mother was not in favor of an elope-
ment.
She wanted him to make good, act in an honor-
able way and ask the consent
of Mr.
Stanton
to
his
marriage with Marie, but she felt at this time Mr. Stan-
ton would not give his consent because he wanted Marie
to complete her education and
it was right and proper
she should.
His mother asked him if he didn't think

--- PAGE 111 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
101
it would be best to continue bis position with Mr. Ken-
nelworth for a few years longer,
after he saw tbat he
was making a success before going to New York where
he might fail in a strange city.
Robert was filled with
a great determination to go.
He wished to make a suc-
cess and knew he would, because he read the Bible and
had learned how.
The week ending May 7th was the greatest week in
Robert Gordon's life up to that time.
Cotton advanced
rapidly about $4.00 per bale, and by May 7th Robert's
profits were about
$2,500.00.
Marie had
a
profit
of
over $1,000.00 on her 100 bales which Robert bought
for her, and Mr. Kennelworth now had a profit of about
$7,000.00.
On Saturday morning, May
7th, Mr. Kennelworth
called Robert into his private
ofiice and asked him
if
he knew what the cotton market was doing that morn-
ing.
Robert said he hadn't heard what the price was.
Mr. Kennelworth told him that July was now selling
around 16 cents per pound, and that while he had some
nice profits, the money was not the thing that counted
with him,
but the fact
that Robert was right on the
market made him happy that he had faith in him and
encouraged him.
Robert then
confided
to Mr. Kennelworth that he
was very anxious to go
to I^ew York just as soon as
possible.
He had been reading about the contemplated
flights of the airplanes from ISTew York across the At-
lantic, and he wanted to be in ISTew York by his birth-
day in June, 1927, because he figured by that time the
airplanes would have
crossed
the Atlantic and
there

--- PAGE 112 of 432 ---

102
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
would be great excitement in New York.
He wished to
be there and get all the information he could about air-
planes,
because he wanted
to
start
building
his own
just as soon as he had money enough and
felt that he
could
do
so.
He
asked
Mr.
Kennelworth
what
he
thought about him resigning in a short time to go to
New York.
Mr. Kennelworth told him that he would
regret very much to lose his services, but that he had
great faith in Robert's study of the Bible and what he
thought he could
do, and that
if he wanted
to do
so,
he would let him go and not only that, but would aid
him financially.
Robert confided his hope and desire
to take Marie with him.
Mr. Kennelworth didn't
ex-
actly agree with this but told him that this was a prob-
lem he would have to solve for himself; that
if Marie
had faith enough in him to take the step, he was sure
it would work out
all right; and that he could always
have his old position back any time that he wanted to
return, and could have any help that he could render
him in New York.
After his conference with Mr. Kennelworth, Robert
wired Marie as follows:
EXPECT TO BE WITH TOU SUNDAY WILL COME OVER ON AFTER-
NOON TRAIN TODAY.
Robert arrived in Sherman, Texas, Saturday evening,
and Marie met him at the train.
She was overjoyed at
Robert's
success.
They
spent
Saturday evening
and
Sunday together.
It seemed to them the happiest days
of their lives.
Robert talked over his plans and Marie
was enthusiastic about his future.
He told her that
if

--- PAGE 113 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
103
the market worked as lie expected, he intended to trade
in wheat and corn in the near future ; that he hoped to
go to ISTew York by the early part of June,
as he was
very enthusiastic about the air flights from ]^ew Yotk
across the Atlantic to Paris, and get started on his stud-
ies and invention.
Marie was willing to give him
all
the money she had made to help him out but he told her
that the one thing he wanted was her and her love, and
that he wanted her to go with him to ]^ew York.
She knew her father would never consent to their
marriage and the only way would be to elope.
While
she thought
it best to finish her studies in school and
join him in l^ew York
later,
said
if he
insisted,
she
would go with him.
Robert left for Texarkana on Sun-
day afternoon, May 8th, with Marie's promise that
if
he decided to go to 'New York within a few weeks, they
would make arrangements to elope and be married in
St. Louis on their arrival there.
Robert had his Bible
with him and on his way back home Sunday night, spent
several hours reading
it and going over the predictions
by Ezekiel and the plans
outlined by Ezekiel
for an
airplane, which Robert hoped and expected to build in
the near future.
During the next ten days, cotton was slow and reacted
40 to 50 points.
But this in no wise discouraged Rob-
ert, as he felt sure that a big advance was coming the
latter part of May and during the early June.
On May 19th, July cotton was again up around the
16
cent
level.
Robert
felt that now was the time
to
start buying wheat and corn.
He wired his broker in
New York to buy 10,000 July wheat and 10,000 July

--- PAGE 114 of 432 ---

104
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
com, and to raise the stop loss order on his cotton and
also place a stop loss order on the wheat and com,
to
protect the broker and himself.
The broker wired that
he had bought 10,000 July wheat at 1.381/2 and 10,000
July corn
at 92
cents.
On May 20th Robert bought
10,000 July com
at 92%
cents for Marie's
account.
He told Mr. Kennelworth that he figured wheat and
corn were now going to have a big advance, and advised
him to buy some^ which he did.

--- PAGE 115 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK PROM 1940
105
CHAPTEE X
MAY 21st was a red-letter day in the life of Robert
Gordon.
Wheat,
corn and
cotton
all advanced
to the highest
levels
of the season.
Robert had read
reports
in the paper
that
Charles A. Lindbergh had
started on his lone flight from ISTew York to Paris.
He
went down to the telegraph
office in the afternoon to
inquire if there was any news about the success of Lind-
bergh's flight.
The operator said that nothing had come
over the wire
yet,
but there had been a
report
that
Lindbergh had passed over Ireland early that morning.
Robert waited in the telegraph office until about 5 p.m.
when a flash came over the wire that Lindbergh had
landed in Paris.
This fired Robert's enthusiasm, and
he was very much excited.
Right then and there de-
cided that he was going to I^ew York in the very near
future and start to build an airplane according to his
own plans.
He went immediately to the home of Mr.
Kennelworth and told him about his plans and desire
to go to New York just as soon as possible.
Mr. Kennelworth was
also very enthusiastic
about
Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic, and told Robert
that he contemplated going to ISTew York to be there for
the reception when Lindbergh returned,
and
that he
wanted to visit Walter and see how he was getting along
anyway.
So Robert tendered
his
resignation
to Mr.

--- PAGE 116 of 432 ---

106
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Kennelworth to take place on May 31, 1927.
Mr. Ken-
nelworth accepted the resignation with the understand-
ing and promise from Robert
that
if anything went
wrong or he should lose his money or meet with disap-
pointments in Xew York, he would immediately return
and assume his old position.
Robert thanked him for
his kindness and told him that he would feel free to call
on him but that he felt he would never have to return
to take up the position again.
In view of his discoveries
of the cycles in the Bible, he could make money in the
market, but
his
object was not
alone to make money
for selfish purposes, but to use
it to benefit others and
for the protection of his country at the time of the com-
ing great war which would be fought in the air.
On Sunday, May 22nd, Robert wrote to Marie
:
My dearest Marie,
The past week has been a great one for us, and yesterday,
the 21st, was the greatest day in history.
Lindbergh, the lone
aviator,
crossed
the
Atlantic
and
landed
safely
in
Paris.
Wheat, com and cotton went up and we made more money.
Profits
are
piling up
fast, and
I
will
soon have
plenty
of
money to build my
airplane.
I had a long
talk with Mr. Kennelworth yesterday
after-
noon
after we
received the news
of Lindbergh's
flight, and
resigned my position, to take place on May 31st.
Expect to
go to New York some time in the early part of June, and of
course
I want
to
take you with me
as my
wife.
With the
profits we now have made
in
the market,
there
will
be no
trouble about us getting along
all
right in New York and I
am sure that I am going to make a lot more money.
Cotton
is going away up
in
the
early part
of June and
wheat is going very high in the latter part of May and early
June.
I will
sell out and take some of my profits so we can

--- PAGE 117 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
107
get started in good shape.
Will see you next Sunday and talk
the matter over and plan the best way.
Your love and faith has sustained me thus far and helped
to make me the success that I am, and with that love, there
is no height which I cannot reach.
I
love you more
than
ever.
You
are
all and
everything
to me.
Lovingly,
Robert.
During the week ending May 28th, Robert watched
the markets very closely because he figured that wheat
and corn would be top around May 28th to June
1st.
He wanted to sell out and get the profits so that he could
go to Isew York.
Cotton advanced to the highest level
that week and on
Saturday,
July was up
to
16.40.
Robert had a profit of over $3,000.00 in his cotton.
He
sold out his July wheat on May 28th at $1.50 and sold
the
corn
at
$1,031/2, making
about
$2,300.00
profit.
This,
together with
his
stock
profits, gave him
about
$6,000.00.
He sold out Marie's corn at $1,031/2, mak-
ing a profit of about $1,100.00 there.
She
also had a
profit of about $1,200.00 on the cotton which she was
still holding because he believed
it was going higher.
Marie's profit now amounted to about $2,300.00.
Robert was going to Sherman,
Texas, on Saturday
afternoon, and Monday being Decoration Day, he would
not return until Monday night.
He had a talk with
Mr. Kennelworth before leaving and Mr. Kennelworth
told him that he had been buying more corn on the way
up and more cotton
; that he now had a profit of about
$25,000.00,
all of which was due to Robert's advice.
Robert said that he was going away to see Marie and

--- PAGE 118 of 432 ---

108
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
confided that lie was going to try to get her to elope with
him and go to ISTew York.
Mr. Kennelworth told him
that he could take the good news to Marie that he was
going to give them a wedding present of $10,000.00,
which was
less than half of the
profits he had made.
He was going to continue to hold the cotton until Robert
thought
it was time to
sell.
On the afternoon of May 28th, Robert boarded a train
for Sherman, Texas, with the lightest heart that he had
ever experienced in his
life.
ISTow that his dream was
really going to be realized, he was never so happy.
He
figured
that with the money he had made and with
Marie's money, and the $10,000.00 which Mr. Kennel-
worth was going
to
give them, he would have
about
$18,000.00 which would give him capital
to continue
to speculate in the market and money for his plans on
his great airplane.
As the train rolled
across the plains of Texas and
Robert watched the sun setting across the prairies on
that Saturday afternoon, he dreamed of the day when
he, like Lindbergh, would cross the country in his great
airplane.
He
could think of nothing
else but Lind-
bergh's great flight and what it meant to the world.
He
realized that Ezekiel's prophecy of that war which was
to come and be fought in the air, was coming true, and
the great plane
described by
Ezekiel,
the
eagle with
wheel within a wheel, would one day become a reality.
He could now see the possibilities of his dream being
fulfilled and he was sure of success.
Marie welcomed him with enthusiasm and open arms.
She was
so proud of him and
so happy that he made

--- PAGE 119 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
109
good in the market.
He had been so thoughtful to buy
cotton and corn
for her and
sold
out the corn with
$1,100.00 profit.
She told Robert that he was a won-
der ; that he was one of the greatest young men in the
world and
a genius, and that he would be
a
greater
man than Lindbergh when he was as old as Lindbergh.
Robert said that on June 9th, he would be 21 years
of age, and on that day he wanted to be married and
start on his career as a real man.
He wanted to go
back to Texarkana after the holidays, wind up his affairs
and get ready to go to JSTew York.
Wanted her to go
with him, starting Saturday, June 4th, so they would
arrive on Sunday, June 5th, in St. Louis, be married,
and
proceed
immediately
to l^ew
York.
He
asked
Marie what she thought about going to her father,
tell-
ing him he had now made good and had enough money
to
start
out,
and
ask
his
consent
to
their marriage.
Harie said that
it was useless; that her father would
never consent to her leaving school and being married,
no matter how much money the man she was going to
marry had to take care of her.
Her father was bent
on her finishing her education and she knew
it would
be a hopeless case.
There was no use talking about
it.
She asked Robert if he didn't think it would be better
for her to remain in school for another year or two,
to finish her education, and then she could join him in
ISTew York and be married.
She thought it possible that
he might get along better for a while without her.
But
Robert would not
listen to this and
told her that he
would never go without her.
His future happiness and
success
depended upon her
love
and
encouragement.

--- PAGE 120 of 432 ---

110
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Her love had guided him safely thus far and would lead
him on to greater things.
He had dreamed of the time
when he would come home at night from his work or
study, to find her there and see her beautiful eyes, the
lights that would guide him on to success.
She could
either make him the most miserable man in the world
or the happiest.
His entire future and fate were in her
hands and she could do with him as she willed.
Marie
agreed to keep her promise she had made to him long
before,—^that
regardless
of money
or
conditions,
she
would leave father, mother, brothers and sisters, and go
with him anywhere, even unto the ends of the earth,
and that
if he
insisted,
she would elope because she
knew that was the only way since her father would not
give his consent.
On Sunday, May 29th, Robert and Marie went to
Dallas, Texas.
They had planned when they were ready
to elope,
that Marie would leave from Dallas on the
^^Sunshine Special" in the afternoon of June 4th.
She
was to keep her plans absolutely secret and Robert was
to board the same train that night at Texarkana, and
after the train was out of Texarkana, he was to find her,
go on to St. Louis together, be married there on Sun-
day morning, and leave Sunday noon for iN'ew York.
Robert was extremely happy and talked of nothing but
the success that was to come to them ; of his great plane
that he was to build and the part it would take in pro-
tecting the country in the great air battle which he was
sure was
yet
to
come, when
foreign
countries
thru
their jealousy, would attack the United States from the
air and do great damage to this country.
He told her

--- PAGE 121 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
111
that in the end Uncle Sam would win; that the Stars
and Stripes would proudly float from the great buildings
in New York, and that they would live to eee that day
and he wanted her there with him when his great "ship"
would help win the victory for his
country.
Walter
Kennelworth was in the city and they were going to
work together on inventions and discoveries that would
help win the war which he knew was sure to come.
It was the most interesting and pleasant Sunday that
they had ever spent together.
They drove around Dallas
and talked over their future plans.
Sunday afternoon
they returned to Sherman, and Monday forenoon Rob-
ert spent with Marie.
They went out to the cemetery
and placed some flowers upon the graves of soldiers who
had lost their lives in defense of their country.
Robert talked of the great feat of Lindbergh and of
the honors that he would receive from the foreign coun-
tries, and told Marie what a great time they would have,
as Mr. Kennelworth was going to New York and they
would
all be there
at the great reception when Lind-
bergh returned.
He said good-bye to her on Monday
afternoon
and
started
back
for
Texarkana, knowing
that the next time he would meet her, would be on board
the train for
St. Louis, where she would become his
wife.
From that time on, Robert counted the minutes, in
anticipation
of the
great happiness
of
the
following
Sunday when they would be married in St. Louis.
He
was strongly attracted to
St. Louis because Lindbergh
had left from there in the "Spirit of St. Louis,'' on his
successful flight.
He thought
it would be good luck to

--- PAGE 122 of 432 ---

112
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
marry in St. Louis and start from there to 'New York
to spend their honeymoon.
On Tuesday morning, May 31st, Robert started early
to Mr. Kennelworth's
office as that was to be his
last
day in the office and he was anxious to clean up all the
business necessary and render Mr. Kennelworth all the
service possible before he went away.
He confided to
Mr.
Kennelworth
the
arrangements
of
eloping
with
Marie.
Mr. Kennelworth told him that he would
ar-
range to go to New York about the 11th of June and
was sorry that he couldn't make the trip with Marie and
Robert and see them married in St. Louis.
But he said
to Robert, ^That
is the time when two young people
like to be alone, and I am afraid that I wouldn't be a
very good chaperon on the trip.
So
it
is
all for the
best and you will get along all right without me."
Robert told Mr. Kennelworth that he figured accord-
ing to his cycle theory, cotton should be sold out about
June 1st or 2nd, that there would be a reaction.
He
had also figured that
it was time to sell wheat and corn
for a reaction.
On June
1st, Robert sold out his July cotton
at
16.80 and also sold out Marie's cotton.
Robert's prof-
its and
capital
together now^ amounted
to
$7,000.00.
Robert sold 25,000 July wheat
at
1.481/2 and 25,000
July corn
at
1.0 6^/2 on June
1st.
He went down to
the broker's
office to watch the market for that week,
because he knew the next few days would be very im-
portant and anxious days for him.
He was thinking
every minute of the day when he would start to New
York and would make Marie
his
wife.
This would

--- PAGE 123 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
113
be the greatest start of
all his
life^ as he was starting
it under favorable conditions and with plenty of money.
He knew that success was certain and was never more
hopeful.
On Saturday, June 4th, he closed his short contract
in July wheat
at 1.43 and
his corn contract
at
1.02.
He had made a profit of over $2,000.00 on wheat which
brought his capital up to $9,000.00.
Mr. Kennelworth
had taken Robert's advice and gone short of wheat and
com on June
1st, after selling out his cotton.
Cotton
declined from June 1st as Robert figured
it would.
He
told Mr. Kennelworth on Saturday morning that he was
going to buy in his wheat and
corn, because he was
getting ready to go away that afternoon and was not
going to make any more trades until he had arrived in
^N^ew York.
He would have everything
in cash and
ready to make a new start after the honeymoon.
Mr. Kennelworth had sold wheat and corn heavily
and had made over $50,000.00 since he started to follow
Robert's advice.
He made back
all the money he had
lost in the slump in
oil stocks in 1919 and was very
grateful to Robert.
He handed Robert 'New York ex-
change for $10,000.00 as a wedding present.
Told him
that he could call on him for any additional help that
he wanted in financing the building of his airplane or
for any other purpose.
Robert
assured him
that he
would not need any more help ; that he could make all
the money he wanted and that his success was assured.
Robert
told Mr.
Kennelworth
that
he made
over
$4,000.00
for Marie on her
little
capital
of $400.00
with which she had started.
Mr. Kennelworth was very

--- PAGE 124 of 432 ---

114
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
much elated over this.
This was the first time he had
heard about Marie putting up $400.00
to buy cotton.
He told Robert she was the kind of a woman to marry,
the one who believed in him and would back him with
her money and everything else.
lie believed it was love
of
the
right
kind—that
success was
sure
to
follow.
Robert was so happy that afternoon that he called Marie
on the long-distance 'phone, and told her of his great
success
in
the market
in wheat and
the money Mr.
Kennelworth had made; told her that they had now a
working
capital
of around $25,000.00 and with that
much money, in E"ew York it would be only a question
of a few years when he would be a millionaire.
The
main
thing, however, was not money but the use he
wanted to put it to in completing his invention.
Marie
was very happy and told him that she was making ar-
rangements to go to Dallas and would leave there that
afternoon on the ^'Sunshine Special," and after the train
pulled out of Texarkana, he would find her on board.
He was to keep everything quiet and not
let anybody
know anything about the elopement, as her father might
try to stop
her.
No one
in Texarkana but
Robertas
mother and Mr.
Kennelworth knew
about
the
secret
elopement.
Robert kept everything quiet about his re-
signing from Mr.
Kennelworth's
and
going
to l^ew
York, because he thought that there might be some leak
somewhere and that Mr. Stanton might find out about
Marie's elopement and stop
it.

--- PAGE 125 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
115
CHAPTER XI
A T 7 P.M. June
4tli,
1927, Robert walked into the
J_\. Railroad Station at Texarkana and bought a ticket
for
St.
Louis,
with
a
reservation
on
the
^'Sunshine
Special."
This was the greatest and happiest moment
of his life.
He knew that Marie was already on her way
and that in a couple of hours the train would arrive and
he would go aboard for St. Louis^ where he was to make
her his wife.
After buying his ticket, he went over to
the Huckins Hotel and met Mr. Kennelworth for a final
conference and to say good-bye.
He told Mr. Kennel-
worth that he figured
it would be time to buy cotton
on a little reaction Monday morning, and also time to
buy wheat again.
Mr. Kennelworth assured him that
he was going to plunge on his
profits, and
if he lost
money now,
it would be out of profits.
He was going
to get into the market and try to make a lot more money
before he went to ISTew York.
Robert said that he in-
tended to wire his broker from St. Louis to buy cotton
and wheat for him on Monday morning.
Mr. Kennelworth bid Robert good-bye with
all good
wishes for success and said he was sure he was going
to succeed, but that if failure and disappointment should
come, he should always remember that he could rely
upon him
; that a young man often had trouble and dis-
appointment and made many mistakes before he reached
his goal and that if anything went wrong in the market,

--- PAGE 126 of 432 ---

116
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
tie could always come to him and ask for any aid pos-
sible and he would gladly grant
it.
He thought as much
of Robert as he did of his own son, Walter, and wanted
them to work together in New York, and was sure that
they could be a great
success.
He wanted Robert
to
encourage Walter to continue his studies along chemical
lines,
because he believed that Walter would be
able
to make some great
discoveries and they
could work
together to good advantage.
The ^'Sunshine Special'^ was a little late on Saturday
night, June 4th, and Robert's heart was in his throat.
He was anxious for that train to roll in.
Einally, when
the whistle blew and the signal light in the yard of the
Texas Pacific showed the ^^Sunshine Special" was
roll-
ing in, the glare of the headlights on the train was the
most welcome
sight
that
Robert had
ever
witnessed
thru
all the days of his
life.
He boarded the train as
quickly as possible and sat down nervous and anxious
awaiting the moment when the train would get about
20 miles out of Texarkana,
so that he might go back
and look for Marie.
The minutes passed slowly away and
it seemed like
years before the train crossed the Red River and Robert
decided that
it was
safe
to go back
to the car where
Marie was and
see her.
He found Marie
all anxious
and nervously awaiting his arrival.
She flew into his
arms and seemed the happiest woman in the world and
Robert was too happy for words.
They sat there and
talked of their future plans until after midnight.
Marie told Robert that she knew if her father found
out she was eloping, he would make every effort to stop

--- PAGE 127 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
117
her and prevent their marriage, as she was not of age,
and he was anxious that she complete her education.
Robert asked her if she had any regrets in the steps she
was taking, and she told him she did not, that
if she
did have, she would never have started.
She thought
it was wonderful that Robert had been able
to make
money so rapidly and was very happy that he had stuck
to the Bible and studied so hard, and now was getting
his reward for his faith and hard work.
She expressed
her supreme confidence in him and the work that he
intended to do.
Robert hoped
it would be a beautiful
sunshiny Sunday morning when they
arrived
in
St.
Louis, so that they could be married and then proceed
to 'New York.
Marie seemed very enthusiastic over the prospect of
getting to
St. Louis.
Robert had a
little surprise for
her, and she asked him to
tell her what
it was.
But
he said, she must wait until they arrived in St. Louis.
^^Robert, just suppose the train should be wrecked and I
should be
killed^
or something should happen that I
would never see you
again,
don't you think you had
better tell me about the surprise now ?"
He said,
^^E'o,
there
is not going to be any wreck.
Good luck
is fol-
lowing us, and the surprise will keep until tomorrow
morning."
She
said,
^'Robert, I may not be
able to
sleep.
I don't think I can sleep anyway, after all this
excitement and happiness and everything that is to come
in the future."
Robert knew that he
couldn't
sleep
either, but he would go up to his car, lie down and try
to get some rest before they arrived in
St. Louis the
next morning.
They agreed to meet early in the morn-

--- PAGE 128 of 432 ---

118
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
ing and go back into the dining car for breakfast before
they arrived in St. Louis.
Robert returned to his berth and tried to
rest, but
found that he couldn't
sleep.
He thought over what
Marie had
said about—"suppose the train should be
wrecked, or something should happen that you should
never see me
again.''
He thought that nothing could
happen to separate Marie from him, but just the same
it was the thought that she said something might hap-
pen.
He
felt lonesome being separated from Marie.
She was two cars back, but he felt that the good God
who had endowed him with faith would protect Marie,
and that no harm would come to her ; that there was no
danger of a wreck on the "Sunshine Special" and that
there was sunshine waiting for Marie and himself.
In
the wee small hours of the morning, Robert dozed off
and had a few hours of sound
sleep.
He arose early
and
dressed.
About
8
o'clock,
he
hurried
back
to
Marie's car, to take her to breakfast.
When he arrived
at her berth, he found it empty.
He went back to the
dining-car to look for Marie, but couldn't find her there,
and then went on thru to the end of the train, but was
unable to locate Marie.
The Pullman porter told him
that he hadn't seen her that morning and the last he
saw of her was when Robert was talking to her in the
berth late that night.
Robert then searched the train
again from one end to the other and become uneasy and
anxious about Marie.
He returned again to her car
and had the porter look for her baggage, and after look-
ing
thru
the
car,
found
that
it
was
gone.
Robert
was now almost
frantic and could
not imagine what

--- PAGE 129 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
119
could have happened to her, because her baggage was
gone.
The porter assured him that there had been no
hold-up of the train that night and that nothing un-
usual had happened.
He had been up all night helping
people get on and off at different stations but had seen
nothing of Marie at any time.
The train conductor was
notified and the Pullman-car conductor was told.
Both
of them searched the train from one end to the other,
and nowhere could Marie be found.
Robert did not explain to the conductor or the porter
that they were to be married in St. Louis that morning.
The conductor told him that
it seemed plain that in
some way during the
night,
she must have
left
the
train because her baggage was gone.
Robert was now
almost in a state of collapse.
He imagined
all kinds
of
things
which
might
have
happened
to
Marie.
Thought that she might have become insane during the
night, and had thrown her baggage out of the window,
and jumped
out.
Thought her father might in some
way have found out about her plans and had some officer
or someone secreted t)n the train who had taken Marie
off
at some point
enroute.
But no matter what he
thought or imagined,
it was no relief to his mind be-
cause he did not know where Marie was.
All his future
happiness was blasted in a moment.
By the time the search was over, the train was nearing
St. Louis.
Robert began to think of
all the things he
could and must do to try and find Marie.
The
first
thing he thought of was to wire Mr. Kennelworth, and
have him make
a
search and
ascertain whether her
father or mother knew anything about what had hap-

--- PAGE 130 of 432 ---

120
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
pened.
The railroad conductor and Pullman conductor
had tried to cheer Kobert up and assure him that noth-
ing seriously wrong could have happened to her, and
that for some unknown reason she must have left the
train at some station during the night without anyone
knowing
it, because they were sure that she could not
have jumped out or
fallen from the window without
someone knowing about
it and they thought there was
nothing to worry about.
Robert had decided on send-
ing telegrams and making every search possible to locate
her.
He put
his hand
in
his
inside
pocket
to
find
a pencil and draw out a wallet.
In the pocket was an
envelope addressed to him in Marie's handwriting.
He
did not know where
it had come from or how
it could
have gotten into his pocket, but he hurriedly tore the
envelope open and this
is what he read
:
June
5, 1927—3 a.m.
Dearest Robert:
According to your faith, be I unto you.
Love will always
have
faith,
understand
and
wait.
Time
proves
all
things.
You will get everything you want.
I will come to you when I
mean the most and your need for love is the greatest.
Lovingly always,
Marie.
"When Robert finished reading this
little note,
tears
were streaming down his
face.
He was frantic.
He
knew that the mysterious letter was written by Marie's
own hand and must have been written on the train and
for some unknown reason she was leaving him.
He at
once thought of his great faith in her, and his faith in
God and the future as he read.
He wondered what this
I

--- PAGE 131 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
121
could mean : "According to your faith be I unto you
love
will
always
have
faith,
understand
and
wait.''
Robert thought, "How can I understand, how can I
wait, when I left her only a few hours ago supremely
happy anticipating being married a few hours later in
St.
Louis, and going on
to
IsTew York
to spend our
future lives together.
What in the world can she mean
by,
'time proves
all
things.' "
Time had proved
his
faith and love for her.
She had had faith in him and
had encouraged him; had put up the $400.00 she had
saved, not to make money for herself but to try to help
him.
She told him that she didn't want the money, but
wanted him to use
it in any way that would help him.
Then he pondered the next line where she said :
"You
will get everything you want."
He thought, "My God,
there
is only one thing that I do want, there
is only
one thing in this world that means anything to me and
that is my Marie, and where will I find her."
Reading
the next line over and over, "I will come to you when
I mean the most and your need for love is the greatest."
He almost exclaimed aloud, "My God, my God, now
is the time that I need her the most.
I will never need
her more.
How can I go on?
Life will be a blank.
I will be a dismal failure without her."
He wondered
if there ever could be a time in the future when he
would need her more, when she would mean more to
him, than she meant at this moment.
He could imagine no unfriendly circumstances, no
break of any kind that would cause Marie to change
in a few hours and decide to turn back from the step
she had taken.
He could not understand how she could

--- PAGE 132 of 432 ---

12«
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
have slipped to his berth in the wee small hours of the
morning and placed this note in his inside coat pocket.
It was her handwriting, and he knew that Marie had
written
it.
But why ! why
! why
!
As
the train
rolled
into the Union
Station
at
St.
Louis he stood in the car dazed, with her letter crumpled
in his hand. With a heavy heart he made his way to the
station and sat down to think what he could or should
do.
Finally, he decided to send a telegram and lay the
circumstances of Marie's disappearance before Mr. Ken-
nelworth and ask his advice before making any move.
Robert realized that he must have time to collect his
thoughts,
if he ever could think again.
His thoughts
turned back to the dream Marie had told him she had,
where some terrible tragedy had overtaken him and she
had gone out of his life in a mysterious way and came
back into
it in the same way.
He wondered
if at that
time Marie had had
any
doubt
that
she might
not
want to continue to carry out the plans agreed on.
Then
he thought of what she said just before bidding good-
night in the train, when she had asked him to tell her
what the surprise was he had for her and said to him
that the train might wreck and kill her or that some-
thing might happen to separate them.
He wondered
then
if
she had
something
in
her mind which
she
thought might separate them during the night, or if she
intended to hide from him in some way.
But he must get
all that out of his mind—must have
faith in Marie, must understand and wait.
Then like
a
flash he became
contented.
Thought
it was
all
a
joke that Marie had played on him, that she was hiding

--- PAGE 133 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
US
somewhere
in the train and
in a few minutes would
show up, so he decided not to send a telegram to Mr.
Kennelworth but simply stay in the station and wait.
He opened his
suit case and took out the Bible, and
there began to read from St. Paul, who said that love
suffers long and is kind, seeks not
its own,
is not easily
provoked and thinks no evil.
Robert resolved to have
patience, to have faith in Marie, and never doubt her,
and never to think any evil of her no matter what hap-
pened.
His mind was
relieved.
He
felt happy and
more cheerful, and was hopeful.
He waited a short time in the station, hoping Marie
would join him.
The seconds drifted away like weeks,
the minutes seemed like months, and when an hour had
gone by, to Robert
it seemed
like years.
He waited
and hoped ; watched in every direction for Marie's beau-
tiful eyes, the eyes he told her he loved so much and
always wanted them to greet him when he came home
from his work because they were an inspiration.
Slowly
the hands on the great clock in the Union Station showed
it was nearly 12
o'clock noon.
Robert listened
atten-
tively as the old clock tolled twelve times for 12 o'clock
and each time
it seemed that the blood from his heart
was slowly trickling away.
Hope was fast giving away
to despair.
Robert found his patience waning, but that
was not to be.
He must trust to the word of God which
said: "O, ye of little faith, saith the Lord," and must
try to find Marie who meant everything to him.
As
the
last
stroke
of the
clock
died
slowly away,
Robert started to think again.
He finally decided that
he would stay in the Union Station and have patience

--- PAGE 134 of 432 ---

124
THE TUNNEL THRU THE Am
to wait one more hour for Marie.
He thought that she
was really playing a joke on him and would surely come
hy
1
o^clock.
While he waited he continued to read
the Bible:
"The heavenly Shepherd is leading you in
the right way to his own blessed
fold.
Leave
all
to
him, to his faithfulness, his love, his power, his watch-
ful,
sleepless care."
Kobert decided to
trust,
to have
faith and leave
it
all
to God that He might
protect
Marie and bring her safely back to him.
Then he read the poem by Gerhart
:
*'The prison where thou art
Thy God will break
it soon,
And flood with light thy heart
In his own blessed noon."
Eobert thought how happy he would have been, as he
expected by this time to be married to Marie and hap-
pily on their way to l^ew York to celebrate their honey-
moon.
The hour had drifted slowly away and
it was
now a quarter to
one.
Robert was troubled and
dis-
couraged, but had not lost hope.
He opened his Bible
and read—Job 6:8:
"Oh that I might have my request, and that God would
grant me the thing that I long for!"
Bobert knew that he longed for Marie and believed
that if he had faith God would answer his prayers.
He
read again—Job 6:11-13:
"What
is my strength, that I should hope? and what
is
mine end, that I should prolong my life?
Is
not my
help
in me? and
is wisdom
driven
quite
from me?"

--- PAGE 135 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
125
This was a great consolation to Robert.
He realized
that
at last in desperation like Job be must hope and
liave faith; that bis wisdom and strength was in him-
self and that
if he bad faith in God and trusted him
that he would find Marie ; that be would be able to over-
come trials and tribulations and would have wisdom and
faith to hold on and hope until be realized bis dream
and again found Marie.
Robert remembered reading
in the Bible where
it said
:
"Whom God loveth he
chastiseth."
He thought that Marie was chastising him to try bis
faith and decided that he would not
lose patience no
matter what happened, that he would seek her to the
ends of the earth.
Robert watched the movement of every woman who
passed thru the gates of the Union Station for Marie,
but each minute brought
bitter disappointment.
His
heart, which but a few hours ago was
filled with love
and happiness, was sad.
Robert looked up as the hands
on the clock in the Union Station pointed to 1 o'clock,
—^the time that he bad appointed unto himself to wait
without taking some action to try to find Marie.
!N'o
Marie was in sight.
He walked over to the news stand
and bought a paper and decided to sit down for a few
minutes and try to read.
As be slowly turned the pages
of the paper looking for something he knew not what,
suddenly his eyes
fell upon the beading;
*^Tbe Best
Thing on Earth" by R. L. Cole.
The first thought that
entered Robert's mind was that the best thing on earth
was Marie and that the greatest thing in the world was
love.
He read the entire
article.

--- PAGE 136 of 432 ---

126
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XII
The Best Thing On Eakth
By R. L. Cole
JOHN WANAMAKER said:
"I have for the gov-
ernment, and in my own business, made contracts
involving millions of dollars.
I have signed checks for
millions
of
dollars,
but
the
greatest purchase I
ever
made in my life was when I was 11 years old.
I saved
every penny of my hard-earned money and bought
a
Bible that
cost $2.75.
That was my best investment
and has had most to do with the rest of the riches of
my
life.
Every
other investment I have
ever made
holds a secondary place to the first and greatest one of
them all."
Lord
Bacon,
the
literary
genius
and
philosopher,
lifted
the
Bible
one day
above
his
head,
and
said:
^'There God speaks."
God speaks in the first verse, saying: ^Tn the begin-
ning God !"
And all through the Book we find expres-
sions as "Thus saith the Lord," "the word of the Lord
came," "God said," "the Lord commanded,"
etc.
,,
These expressions are used four thousand times in the
j
Bible, thus indelibly stamping the divine mark.
'
"All scripture is given by inspiration of God."
In-i
spiration
means
breathed
into.
God
breathed
his;

--- PAGE 137 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
127
thouglits into the Book.
The Book contains the breath
of God, and lives because God lives.
Jesus said: "Heaven and earth shall pass away but
my word shall not pass away."
The Bible
tells us things we get nowhere
else.
It
tells us of the beginning, for only God was in the begin-
ning.
It
tells
of the beginning
of
creation,
the
be-
ginning of the human race, the beginning of the human
family ; the beginning of sin, the beginning of redemp-
tion; the beginning of the
arts,
sciences, music,
agri-
culture, of nations and languages.
Of the Hebrews, of
law, etc.
Much of ancient history of the earliest times
is bor-
rowed from the Bible.
The Bible tells of things that are to occur thousands
of years
in
the
future. The
destruction
of Babylon,
!N'ineveh, Tyre and Jerusalem was
foretold
in
detail
and has come to pass exactly as was predicted.
The first coming of Jesus Christ was foretold—that
He would come to the tribe of Judah, would be born of
a virgin, would be born in Bethlehem, would come out
of Egypt and would grow up in ^Nazareth, would be
despised and
rejected
of men, would work
miracles,
would be betrayed by one of his own followers, would
be falsely accused, crucified.
That they would gamble
for
his garment; would be buried
in
another man's
tomb,
would
rise
again;
that His
gospel
would
be
preached to all nations ; that to Him would be given a
name
greater than any name.
All
these
prophecies
have been
fulfilled.
The prophecies of the Bible are
yet being fulfilled, and will all be fulfilled.

--- PAGE 138 of 432 ---

1«8
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
In Naomi we are told tliat in tlie day of His prepara-
tion
the
rivers
shall
be
opened,
the
palace
shall
he
dissolved and chariots shall be flaming torches, shall run
like the lightning and rage in the street.
ISTotice this
prophecy
: the bridges shall be opened.
The suspension
bridge opens our rivers.
The palaces shall be dissolved.
They have been.
Russia and Germany are notable examples.
We are
living in an era of democracy.
The flaming chariots
running
like
the
lightning
so much
like
the
auto-
mobile.
In Isaiah we are told that with the coming in of the
Gentiles to the brightness of His rising they shall
fly
as doves to their windows.
That sounds like the
air-
ships.
The Bible is a priceless book because it makes prom-
ises no other book can make.
It promises pardon,
sal-
vation, eternal
life, soul
rest, peace, comfort, strength
and succor ; victory over trials and temptations ; strength
in the dying hour, and heaven for all eternity.
The Bible is priceless because it is indestructible. For
two thousand years the
critics have hurled
against
it
their anathemas^ and
it
still lives.
Time and again
it
has been gathered up and burned, and its advocates for
ages were persecuted and put to death, but
it has sur-
vived fires and floods.
A popular author of fiction boasts 9,000,000 copies
of
his
book
published
in
eight
years.
240,000,000
copies of the Bible have been sold
in the same eight
years.
Another
publisher
boasts
that
his
book
has
beee

--- PAGE 139 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
129
printed in 23 languages.
The Bible is published in 770
different languages and
dialects.
Last we passed beside a blacksmith's door,
And heard the anvil ring the vesper chime,
Then looking
in, I saw upon the floor
Old hammers worn with beating years of time.
"How many anvils have you had," said I,
"To wear and batter
all your hammers so?''
"Just one," said he, then with a twinkling eye,
"The
anvil wears the hammers out you know."
And so thought I, the anvil of God's word,
For ages skeptics' blows have beat upon,
Yet thru the noise of falling blows was heard.
The
anvil was unharmed—the hammers gone.
Last we passed beside,
etc.
Hume
gone,
Voltaire
gone, Tom Paine
gone, Bob
Ingersoll gone.
The present-day enemies in the church
and out
of the church will wear their hammers
out.
God's word that has for two thousand years endured
the test, will endure and stand forever.
The individual or nation that believes the Book, and
lives according to
its teaching, will live as long as the
Book lives, and the individual or nation that spurns
it
will go down.
Martin Luther gave the Bible to Germany and for
generations Germany respected and loved the Book, and
lived.
Then Germany began in her schools to criticise
and spurn the Book and brought on the World War.
Germany by turning away from the Book, committed
suicide, and bo shall
it be with any nation.

--- PAGE 140 of 432 ---

130
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
God forbid that America should ever turn away from
the Bible I
"Lord God of hosts be with us yet
Let we forget,
lest we forget.
We've traveled together, my Bible and
I,
Thru
all kinds of weather, with smile or with sigh.
In sorrow or sunshine, in tempest or calm,
Thy friendship unchanging; my lamp and my psalm.
WeVe traveled together, my Bible and
I,
When life has grown weary, and death e'en was nigh;
But all thru the darkness of mist and of wrong,
I found thee a solace, a prayer and a song.
So now who shall part us, my Bible and
I.
Shall isms or schism or new lights who shall try?
Shall shadow for substance, or stone for good bread
Supplant
its sound wisdom, give folly instead?
Ah no, my dear Bible, revealer of
light.
Thou swoird of the
spirit, put error to
flight;
And
still thru
life's journey, until the last sigh;
We'll travel together, my Bible and I."
These statements agreed exactly with Robert's views.
He had found his greatest help in the Bible and knew
John Wanamaker was right when he said that the great-
est purchase he ever made in his life was when he was
11 years old and bought the Bible for $2.75.
As Robert
read:
"Heaven and earth
shall pass away but my word shall
not pass away,"
he remembered that the Bible said that whenever you

--- PAGE 141 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
131
pray, believe tliat you have it and you shall. As he knew
that all things are possible with the Lord, he determined
to pray believing that Marie would soon return to him.
Robert was much impressed with the statement
that
all the prophecies of the Bible are being fulfilled and
will be fulfilled.
He knew that every promise that God
had ever made to man, he had kept.
This renewed Rob-
ert's faith and again he read Marie's note where it said
:
^^According to your faith, be I unto you," and Robert
thought that
if faith would bring Marie back to him
she would surely come.
He knew that time would never
change
his love and
that there was no
other woman
but Marie for him.
He would live, work and hope for
Marie until he found her, but if she had gone from him
forever and such bad news should come to him, he knew
that he would bury all life and that hope would depart
from him and life would not be worth living.
At the end of the
article he read the poem on the
Bible and was much impressed with these lines:
"Ah no, my dear Bible, revealer of light,
Thou sword of the
spirit, put error to
flight;
And
still thru
life's
journey,
until
the
last sigh;
We'll travel together, my Bible and
I.'*
Robert felt that this article had been written especially
for him when he needed
it most, making him
realize
the value of his Bible and the trust he should put in
it,
applying its wisdom to his present problem and troubles.
By the time Robert had finished reading this article,
it was after 1
: 30 p.m. and he decided that it was hope-
less to wait longer for Marie, that something radically
wrong had happened and
she had
either gone away

--- PAGE 142 of 432 ---

132
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
or an accident liad befallen her.
He must make some
plans for locating her.
Decided to go to a hotel and
call Mr. Kennelworth on long-distance 'phone at Tex-
arkana.
"With this plan in mind, he made his way to
the hotel, registered and as soon as he was assigned to
his room, put in a long-distance call for Mr. Kennel-
worth.
Mr. Kennelworth was
at his residence and
it
was only a question of a few minutes until he had him
on the 'phone.
Between sobs, he told his sad story to
Mr.
Kennelworth
about
Marie's
disappearance
and
asked his
advice.
Mr. Kennelworth told him that he
thought for some reason Marie may have decided
to
return to school and complete her education, and prob-
ably was at that time on her way back to Sherman.
The
best plan would be to wait until the next night to see
if she returned,
altho
it was
possible that she might
get back late that night.
Mr. Kennelworth told Robert
that he would go to see her father and
find out any
information he could for him.
Robert was to remain
at the hotel and
if he got any information, he would
telephone him.
He advised Robert to notify the rail-
road authorities, and have them make a search and in-
quire at all of the stations where the train stopped that
night on the way from Texarkana to St. Louis, in order
to get a clue to Marie's disappearance.
After talking with Mr. Kennelworth, Robert got in
touch over the 'phone with the railroad
officials in
St.
Louis and notified them of Marie's disappearance from
the train.
They promised to send telegrams to all the
station agents, to have all the trains watched and try to
secure some information for him.
They were to com-

--- PAGE 143 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
1S3
munieate with him just as soon as they had anything
definite one way or the other.
Robert now realized that he must go thru the greatest
ordeal yet—that of waiting hourly for some news of
Marie.
He knew the hours would pass slowly and de-
cided to formulate a plan in case Marie did not return
to school or to her home, and if no news came from her
the next day what would be his next move and what he
should do to try to locate her.
The next time Robert noticed the time of day,
it
was after 6 p.m. and he realized that he had had no
breakfast, lunch or dinner^ but his heart was heavy and
he felt that he could not eat anything.
The shock had
been
so great and had come so suddenly that Robert
found
it hard to adjust himself to it or to realize what
it all meant or what it might mean in case Marie should
pass
out
of
his
life
forever.
It would mean
every
hope blasted, every sweet dream gone and would leave
him with an uncertainty of life, like a ship without a
rudder.
He decided to pass the time by reading and
seeking consolation in the Bible.
Robert had always been a great admirer of the poet,
S. E. Kiser; always read his poems in the daily news-
papers and a few months previous to this time, had
bought a little book entitled, ^Toems That Have Helped
Me,"
collected by
S. E. Kiser.
He remembered that
he had
this
little book that he liked so much in his
suit-case so he unpacked it to look for the book and as
he did, he came across the present, the surprise that he
had for Marie, that he had told her about before and
refused to give to her or
tell her more about
it until

--- PAGE 144 of 432 ---

134
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
they arrived in St. Louis.
The present was a wedding
ring set with diamonds and a beautiful brooch made of
two hearts woven together and
tied with a cluster of
diamonds and pearls.
This was to be the great surprise
for Marie and he was going to present
it to Marie after
they were married,
as a token of the two hearts that
now beat
as
one.
Robert looked
at this and thought
of how the diamonds represented Marie in
all of her
beauty and that she was a pearl of great price.
It was too much for him.
He broke down completely
and wept like a baby.
Alone he was—the most alone
he had ever been in his life before—away from friends,
away from mother, and above all, separated from Marie,
who meant more than
life
to
him.
He
sobbed
for
hours.
His heart was breaking, but with a wondering
mind, he realized that he must have strength, and that
he must have faith and hope on—hope and believe that
Marie was alive and he knew that if she were alive, there
was hope.
He picked up his favorite little book, "Poems That
Helped Me," and started to read.
The
first one that
caught his eye was, "Faith" by Tennyson:
"We have but faith; we cannot know;
For knowledge is of things we see
;
And yet we trust
it comes from thee,
A beam of darkness:
let
it grow.
Let knowledge grow from more to more,
But more of reverence in us dwell;
That mind and soul, according well,
May make one music
as before,

--- PAGE 145 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
135
But vaster. We are fools and slight;
We mock thee when we do not fear;
But help thy foolish ones to bear;
Help thy vain worlds to bear thy light.
Forgive what seemed my sin in me;
What seem'd my worth since I began;
For merit lies from man to man,
And not from man,
Lord, to thee.'*
This cheered Robert and he resolved to have more
faith,
realizing that while he could not see or under-
stand Marie's action he must have faith and love and
trust her, and trust that time would bring understanding
and solve the problem.
He read another poem by Aubrey de Vere, and these
words seemed to sink into his heart as he read them
:
"Hid
it; dropt
it on the moors!
Lost
it, and you cannot find
it"
My own heart I want, not yours
You have bound and must unbound
it.
Set it free then from your net,
We will love, sweet—^but not yet!
Fling
it from you—we are strong
Love
is trouble, love
is folly;
Love, that makes an old heart young,
Makes a young heart melancholy."
Robert felt that love might be trouble, but that love
was the greatest and sweetest thing in the world and
that he would go thru any troubles in the world, suffer
anything, only to regain Marie and her love.
As Rob-
ert slowly turned the pages of the little book, his eyes
fell upon another poem, "Courage" by Thos. F. Porter
:

--- PAGE 146 of 432 ---

1S6
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
"What
if the mom no joy to you
shall bring,
No gleam of sunbeam shine across your way;
What
if no bird one joyous note shall sing
Into your listening ear thru all the day
!
What
if no word of comfort you
shall hear
As thru the hours long you
toil and strive;
What if to you no vision bright appear
To keep your hungry heart and soul alive!
What if the blest companionship men crave
Come not to you thru
all the day's long lengthy
But, bound and fettered even as a slave,
Within yourself you have to
find your strength!
And
if, when you have
toiled and wrought
alone,
The sweet reward you sought you do not gain.
And find the hoped-for bread is but stone.
In
that sad hour for
grief, should you compalin?
Ah no!
It matters not
if shade or sun,
Or good or
ill, your
efforts shall attend;
In doing you have
but your duty done
As best you knew—and should do to the end/'
He eagerly devoured the words one by one, because
he was looking for something to give him courage
to
go thru this terrible ordeal.
He thought that this poem
would do.
It surely had been written for him in this
very hour of trouble and realized with Job he must find
his strength within himself and have courage, hope and
faitL
He then read another little poem from the book ; "JSTot
in Vain" by Emily Dickinson
:
'^If I can stop one heart from breaking,
I shall not live in vain:
If I can ease one life the aching,

--- PAGE 147 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
137
Or cool one pain,
Or help one fainting robin
Unto his nest again,
I shall not live in vain/'
Robert felt that he had tried always to be kind and
considerate and
charitable towards
others,
and knew
that he must go on regardless of what happened, and
live his
life hoping to
find Marie.
About
this time,
Robert,
tired, hungry and worn out
fell
asleep.
The
next time that he remembered anything, he awoke on
Monday morning with the sun streaming in thru the
window of
his
hotel and
realized
that he had
fallen
asleep.
The
little
book, "Poems That Have Helped
Me," lay on the bed beside him.
Because the sun was
coming in the east window he knew that he must have
slept thru some part of the night, and it was now morn-
ing.
His first thought was of Marie, and of any news
that might have come.
Picking up the little book, the
first thing that
struck his eye was the poem,
"Press
On" by Park Benjamin:
*Tress on!
Surmount
the rocky
steps,
Climb boldly
o'er the torrent's arch;
He fails alone who feebly creeps,
He wins who dares the hero's march.
Be thou a hero!
Let thy might
Tramp on eternal snows its way.
And thru the ebon walls of night
Hew down a passage unto day.
Press on!
If once and twice thy feet
Slip back and stumble, harder try;
From him who never dreads to meet
Danger and death they're sure to
fly.

--- PAGE 148 of 432 ---

1S8
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
To coward ranks
the
bullet speeds,
While on
their breasts who never
quail,
Gleams, ^ardian of chivalric deeds.
Bright courage like a coat of mail.
Press on!
If Fortune play thee false
To day, tomorrow
she'll be true;
Whom now she sinks she now exalts.
Taking
old
gifts and granting new,
The wisdom of the present hour
Makes up the follies past and gone
;
To weakness strength succeeds, and power
From
frailty springs!
Press
on, press on!
Robert hastily read this poem and found some conso-
lation in
it.
He resolved that he would press on, and
hastened down stairs to the hotel desk to inquire if any
telegrams had been received for him, or
if any long-
distance
call had come during the night when he had
fallen
asleep,
but again he met with disappointment.
There were no telegrams and there had been no 'phone
calls.
Robert felt very faint and weak because he was hun-
gry.
He had
not
eaten
all
day
Sunday,
and now
realized
that
he
must
get
something
to
eat,
and
strengthen himself for the ordeal to follow.
He went
to the dining-room and ordered a
light breakfast but
when the food was served^ he found
it hard to eat be-
cause he thought of the breakfast the Sunday morning
before that he had intended to have eaten with Marie
on the dining-car.
Everything he saw reminded him
of her.
Her smile was in the glittering sunshine which
played upon the windows in front of him or appeared
in the clear crystal water in the glass and the sweet odor

--- PAGE 149 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
139
from the flowers on the table brought memories of sweet
kisses and soft caresses which haunted him.
Finally,
Robert managed to eat a little, because he knew he must
if he expected
to keep up and have strength
to
fight
on and find Marie.
When he had finished his breakfast, he returned to
his room and decided to call the railroad office again and
ascertain
if they had any information for him.
The
general passenger agent was there, and was very courte-
ous over the ^phone to Robert.
He had taken a great
interest in the case and they had received reports from
every station along the line, but nowhere had any trace
been found of Marie.
He assured Robert that the rail-
way company would use every
effort to continue the
search and report to him promptly any information that
they received.
Robert decided to call Mr. Kennelworth on the long-
distance 'phone at his office in Texarkana and soon got
him on the wire.
Mr. Kennelworth said that he had
gone
to
see Marie's
father, Mr.
Stanton,
soon
after
Robert's telephone message Sunday afternoon and had
told Mr. Stanton of Robert's success since he had been
with his firm ; how hard Robert had studied and planned
and how he had figured out the cotton and grain markets
and the large amount of money that he had made on
such a small capital.
He confided to Mr. Stanton the
secret of how Marie had saved up her money and how
much money Robert had made on the $400.00 which he
had invested for her. Mr. Stanton and his wife were much
impressed with the story and
felt that they had been
wrong in opposing Marie's love for Robert and their

--- PAGE 150 of 432 ---

140
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
marriage.
They told Mr. Kennelwortli that when Marie
returned they would give her their consent to marry
Robert then or any time
later.
They
felt
that they
might he to blame for any harm that would come to
Marie
or for the sorrows
that Robert was
suffering.
However, they were hopeful that Marie was either re-
turning home
or was on her way back
to Sherman,
Texas, to complete her education, and, therefore, were
not greatly alarmed and intended to wait until Monday
afternoon to find out
if Marie had gone back to Sher-
man.
Mr. Kennelworth stated that Mr. and Mrs. Stan-
ton wished him
to convey
their sympathy
to Robert
and to
tell him that they had great faith in him and
wanted to help make him and Marie happy.
This message was great consolation to Robert because
he felt that
it was going to solve the problem^ that no
matter what had prompted
Marie's
decision
to
leave
the train and not to go ahead and marry him when she
found that her father and mother had changed
their
attitude, she would be only too glad to return to Robert.
They could then be married and continue on to !N^ew
York where he could take up his studies and complete
the building
of
his
airship
as
soon
as he had made
enough money to do so.
Mr. Kennelworth told Robert that he would call him
on the 'phone about 8
o'clock that night and
let him
know if any word had been received from Marie or
if
news was received sooner, he would
call immediately,
but at any rate would
call
at 8
o'clock.
Mr. Kennel-
worth praised Robert and told him not to lose hope but
take a philosophical view of the matter.
He felt sure

--- PAGE 151 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
141
that no harm had come to Marie, for had there been
any
accident
it
certainly would have been discovered
by this time by the railway company.
The fact that
Marie's baggage had disappeared was convincing
evi-
dence to him that in some way,
at some station during
the night, she had left the train and had probably con-
cealed
herself and was waiting
to
return on another
train, later.
He believed before the day was over they
would have some good news in regard to Marie, and
advised Robert to get busy and go right ahead with his
trading in the market and continue to make money, as
he was sure that everything was going to come out
all
right.
After Robert received this telephone message he was
more hopeful.
He secured a morning newspaper and
found the headlines filled with Lindbergh.
Read about
the
preparations
for
Captain
Lindbergh's
return
to
Washington and ]^ew York and the plans for his recep-
tion.
Of course, Robert had looked forward to being
there at that time and have Marie with him as his wife.
He had been looking forward to the day when his own
dream would be realized and he would build one of
the greatest airships of the age.
Returning to his room, he
fell upon his knees and
breathed a prayer;
a prayer that only a man whose
heart
is
filled with love for a good woman can pray.
He prayed
to
the Universal Power
that
created
the
Universe, the master of land and sea, who rides on the
winds and walks upon the water,
to whom
all power
was given over heaven and earth.
Prayed for strength
and for guidance to do only that which was right and

--- PAGE 152 of 432 ---

142
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
that the good God of the Universe would return Marie
to him in safety.
Prayed not only for himself, or the
strength to come to him, hut for Marie, for her happi-
ness, for her safety.
It was an unselfish prayer; the
kind of a prayer that a mother prays when her child
is
lost, when she thinks nothing of herself hut only of
the child that she loves.
When Rohert arose from the prayer he
felt better;
felt that some of the strength of that unseen guiding
hand, which
is ever a comfort and in great demand in
time of trouble, had come to him.
In God and his word
alone he found comfort and consolation.
He realized
the
significance
of money
and how
little
it
meant;
thought how quickly he had made money on a thousand
dollars in the market and now how he would give every
cent of it for just a message from Marie ; just to know
that she was
alive.
He had never tried to make the
money for a selfish purpose, hut thought of the things
that it could buy to make Marie happy and give her com-
fort, and what he might be able to do for his country
in time of war when they would need service and
in-
ventions which would protect them against the enemy.
After he had time to collect his thoughts, he decided
to call his old pal, Walter Kennelworth, in 'New York
on the long-distance telephone and tell him all that had
happened in such a short time.
Robert had not informed Walter that he was coming
to New York
at this time.
He intended to telegraph
him from
St. Louis on Sunday morning after he and
Marie had been married, and, of course, he knew that
Walter would be
at
the train
to meet them on their

--- PAGE 153 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
143
arrival.
After some delay
lie got Walter on tlie long-
distance 'phone and told him as quickly as possible all
that had happened.
Walter was more amused than
shocked at the news and said:
^^Robert, Marie
is just
a little devil and full of fun.
She is only testing your
love.
There
is nothing to worry about.
I know her
ways better than you do.''
He was sure that everything
would be all right.
But Robert felt that too much time
had already elapsed for
it to be a joke and that Marie
was not waiting around St. Louis or hiding somewhere
playing a joke that long.
It was too serious a matter
for Robert to feel that Marie would punish him in this
way so long.
Walter begged Robert to come right on
to 'New York, but Robert told him he would never leave
St. Louis until he had some definite news, one way or
the other, as to what had happened to Marie.
After his talk with Walter, Robert felt better because
he was his
closest friend and
it was always a pleasure
to talk with him.
He hoped that Walter was right and
that Marie would show up soon.
At the same time, he
feared that something might have gone wrong, but every
time this thought occurred he would read Marie's letter
again and
this would give him hope and courage be-
cause
it plainly said she would come to him w^hen he
needed her most.
Of course, he realized that she could
not know just how badly he needed her now and
felt
that he would never need her more than he did at that
very moment.
When Robert was troubled and blue
it had always
been his practice to read either the Bible or some other
good book.
He had a scrap book where he had collected

--- PAGE 154 of 432 ---

lU
THE TUNNEL THRU [THE AIR
poems and
lie took
this book out and began
to look
thru
it.
He noticed a clipping that he had pasted in
only a short time before headed
: "Tomorrow's Chance/'
by his favorite modern poet, S. E. Kiser
:
I may not reach my goal today
ISTor move one step ahead;
No
effort that I make may pay,
I may lose ground, instead;
But I can try no matter what
Obstructions I shall find,
And
let no thought
Of turning from the path
I've sought
Take root within my mind.
There may be many reasons why
No effort I can make
Shall send my fancies soaring high
Or clear the course I take;
Mischances I could not foresee
May check me everywhere,
But I can be
Determined
bravelj^,
faithfully,
To keep my purpose
fair.
It may be that at every turn
Discouragement
shall lurk;
My lessons may be hard to learn.
Men may condemn my work;
My trust may be betrayed by those
Whom I have thought my friends,
But I can close
My mind
against imagined
woes,
And strive for worthy ends.

--- PAGE 155 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
145
No matter how my hopes shall
fail,
Or how
I
fall behind,
I'll not
sit down tonight to wail
That God has been unkind.
But, with a duty to
fulfil,
And with a proud, defiant glance,
I'll prove that
still
I have the courage and the will,
And gird me for tomorrow's chance.
This poem seemed to
fit his case and he read
it over
carefully.
He resolved that regardless of
discourage-
ment
or disappointment,
blasted hopes,
lost
ideals
or
shattered dreams, he would
still have
the
courage
to
exert himself for "Tomorrow's Chance."
After reading this poem he began to think ahout the
future and his plans.
He knew that he had intended
to go
into the market again on Monday or Tuesday,
but the thought came to him—What good w^ould money
do now, without Marie ?
However, he remembered her
letter saying, "According to your faith, be I unto you."
Therefore, braced himself and again determined to have
faith to go on, watching and waiting for Marie.
Robert bought the evening paper and looked over the
financial page and noted that cotton had gone down as
he had figured
it would.
The following day was the
time
that
his
forecast
indicated
that
it would
strike
bottom so he must pull himself together and buy some
cotton,
both
for
his own
account
and
for
Marie's.
Wheat had
also declined and he
felt that
it was time
to buy wheat for another advance as his cycle indicated
an up-trend to run for the next ten days.
Robert looked

--- PAGE 156 of 432 ---

146
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
over the stock page and noticed
tlie heading; "Major
Motors advances above 200^ a new high level.''
Robert
had figured out that Major Motors would not advance
much above 200 before it would be a short sale for big
profits.
He figured out from the cycle of Major Motors
that it would hold until along in June and July and that
it would decline to a very low level in 1928, so he de-
cided he was going to go short to hold for a long cam-
paign and make a fortune.
Robert was
still holding his Right Aeroplane stock,
which he had bought
at 31 on May 21st, the day that
Captain Lindbergh completed
his
successful
flight
to
Paris.
He figured that he could make a great fortune
by buying Right Aeroplane
stock and holding
it
for
years and at the same time selling Major Motors short.
The
markets
in
Wheat,
Cotton,
Major
Motors
and
Right Aeroplane were
all doing just exactly as he had
calculated they would.
The fact that he was making
money on Right Aeroplane stock encouraged him to con-
tinue his work on his own plane.
Robert did not forget sweet Marie or what she meant
to him.
At the same time he realized what the study
of the Bible had brought him and
felt that thru the
aid of that book and the knowledge and wisdom he had
gained through
its teaching, there would be a way to
find Marie if she were alive.
He believed she was and
he would hope and
wait.
But
in
the meantime he
would try to make some money in order to provide all
the luxuries and comforts for her when he found her.
Since Marie's father and mother had agreed
to with-
draw all their opposition to their marriage, he thought

--- PAGE 157 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
147
that as soon as Marie heard this she would certainly
come to him or communicate with him.
On June Yth, Robert sent a telegram to his broker
to buy 500 bales of October Cotton and 500 bales of
December Cotton at the Opening on Tuesday morning.
He
also ordered him to buy 100,000 bushels of July
Wheat and gave an order to sell 500 shares of Major
Motors when it reached 203.
After sending these tele-
grams he returned to the hotel feeling some better and
hoping that when he heard from Mr. Kennelworth on
the long-distance 'phone he would have some good news.
So he ate his dinner and returned to his room to wait
for a message.
Later he inquired for telegrams and
'phone
calls and was informed that none had been re-
ceived.
He settled himself down in the room and con-
cluded
to wait for the long-distance
call, hoping that
it would bring good news.
At about 8:15 the telephone rang and Mr. Kennel-
worth was on the wire.
Robert knew from Mr. Kennel-
worth's
voice
that he had no good news.
Mr. Ken-
nelworth informed him that no word had been received
from Marie by her parents, and that they had called
up the school in Sherman, Texas, and not a word had
been heard from her there.
The school informed them
that she had left school on Saturday afternoon and had
not been seen since.
Of course, Robert knew she had
left Sherman to meet him and was now more anxious
and worried than ever and freely expressed his great
anxiety
to Mr. Kennelworth.
Mr. Kennelworth was
Btill hopeful and tried to cheer and encourage Robert.
Advised him to go on to 'New York and wait him there.

--- PAGE 158 of 432 ---

148
THE TUNNEL THRU ,THE AIR
He liad followed Robert's advice and bought Wheat and
Cotton on Monday afternoon and Robert told him that
he was going to buy the next morning at the Opening.
Mr. Kennelworth said that he planned to leave for New
York at the end of the week.
Robert then decided to
stay in
St. Louis until he got some
definite word,
or
anyway remain there until Mr. Kennelworth
arrived
and then go on to JSFew York with him.
He was anxious
to see Walter as soon as possible but wanted to know
something about what happened to Marie before leaving
for New York.
Mr. Kennelworth was confident that
the next day would bring some news from Marie, one
way or the other, and advised Robert to keep cheerful
;
that he would inform him just as soon as news came.
After Robert had time to think over the matter, he
decided
to place "Personal
Notices''
in
all the news-
papers of St. Louis and the towns along the line between
Texarkana and
St.
Louis.
If no news was heard of
Marie by Tuesday evening, he would place
it
in the
papers the next day.
He then wrote out the Notice.
Miss
Marie Stanton—I found your
little
note
in my
POCKET ON Sunday morning.
Have been waiting for you
IN St. Louis.
My faith in you is supreme.
It will never
CHANGE.
Months and years cannot change me, no matter
WHAT I HEAR OR DO NOT HEAR OR WHAT MAY HAPPEN, I WILL
always have FAITH IN YOU AND LOVE YOU.
WiLL NEVER NEED
YOU MORE THAN NOW.
NOTHING ELSE THAT
I CAN
GET, OR
MONEY THAT
I CAN MAKE MATTERS OR MEANS ANYTHING TO
ME WITHOUT YOU,
COME TO ME OR COMMUNICATE WITH ME
AND EXPLAIN ALL AND I WILL UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ANY-
THING YOU MAY DESIRE.
MaRIE, RELIEVE MY ANXIOUS HEART.
Let ME HEAR FROM YOU.
YoUR FATHER AND MOTHER HAVE

--- PAGE 159 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
149
AGREED TO WITHDRAW THEIR OBJECTIONS AND CONSENT TO OUR
BEING MARRIED.
I WILL HAVE FAITH AND WAIT IN St. LOUI^
until i hear something from you.
Robert Gordon,
Address—Planters Hotel.
Robert decided to read and study some before he re-
tired that night.
He read the poem, "How to Live/'
by William Cullen Bryant:
So
live, that when thy summons comes to join
The innumerable
caravan
that moves
To that mysterious realm where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of death,
Thou go not, like the quarry slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon, but sustained and soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.
Robert wished that he might be able that night to lie
down to pleasant dreams but he knew that he would
lay down with an unfaltering trust in Marie,
that he
would have the faith in her which would move moun-
tains,
that he would never doubt her no matter how
long a time passed and would prove that his love for
her was supreme and his faith unfaltering.
Robert
read
another poem on
"Perserverance"
by
Goethe;
PERSEVERANCE
We must not hope to be mowers,
And to gather the ripe gold ears,
Unless we have first been sowers
And watered the furrows with tears.

--- PAGE 160 of 432 ---

150
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
It is not just as we take
it,
This mystical world of ours,
Life's field will yield as we make it
A harvest of thorns or of flowers.
He realized that perhaps
all the good things of life
do not come to us easily and that we might have to go
through sorrows and trouble to try our faith.
Robert
decided to persevere and try to be philosophic and hope,
no matter what happened, and to continue to watch and
wait for good news from Marie.
Before
he
retired
that
night,
Robert
read
"The
Golden Hour" by James W. Foley:
I'm sending you one golden hour
From the full jeweled crown of the day;
Not sorrow or care shall have power
To steal this rare jewel away.
I'm bidding you join in the dreaming
I had in that hour of you,
When all of the old dreams, in seeming.
Were gold like the hour, and came true.
So let's dream like a child in its playing.
Let's make us a sky and a sea.
Let's change the things 'round us by saying
They're things that we wish them to be;
And if there
is sadness or sorrow,
Let's dream
till we charm
it away,
Let's learn from the children, and borrow
A saying from
childhood:
*Let's play I"
Let's play that the world's
full of beauty,
I
Let's play there are roses in bloom,
Let's play there
is pleasure in duty,
And light where we thought there was gloom.

--- PAGE 161 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
151
Let's play that this heart with its sorrow
Is bidden be joyous and glad,
Let's play that we'll find on tomorrow
The joys that we never have had.
Let's play that regret with
its ruing
Is banished forever and aye,
Let's play there's delight but in doing,
Let's play there are flowers by the way.
However
the pathway seem
dreary,
Wherever the
footsteps may
lead,
Let's play there's a song for the weary
If only the heart will give heed.
Let's play we have done with repining.
Let's play that our longings are still.
Let's play that the sunlight
is shining,
"^0 gold the green slope of the
hill.
Le-'s play there are birds blithely flinging
Their songs of delight
to
the
air.
Let's play that the world's full of singing,
ijet's play there
is love—everywhere.
Robert knelt and prayed before he went to sleep,
al-
ways asking for Marie and her protection.
He said:
"Lord, I ask nothing for myself, but beseech the great-
est blessings on Marie and only ask for her happiness.
If
it be for the best that her happiness be away from
me, then I desire to suffer rather than for her to be un-
happy.
I pray that she may realize my great love and
faith in her, my devotion to her and willingness to make
any sacrifice for her that might seem right, no matter
what my judgment may be."
Robert slept better that uight because he was looking

--- PAGE 162 of 432 ---

16«
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
forward to Tuesday, the 7th day of the month.
He had
learned that the ^'7th" was a sacred day, and had often
talked to Marie about the number
7, and the number
of times
it
is spoken of in the Bible.
How God had
blessed the 7th day and made it the Sabbath ; how many
things had come
to pass on the
7th day
of the
7th
month,
or the 7th year referred to in the Bible.
In
some way he felt that on this day news would come from
Marie and he hoped that
it would be good.
Robert awoke on Tuesday morning feeling much bet-
ter, had his breakfast early, bought the newspaper and
read all about the receptions being planned for Colonel
Lindbergh and again the wish stole into his heart and
the hope was revived that in some way Marie might be
with him when Lindbergh arrived in J^ew York.
Later
in the day he received telegrams at his hotel from his
broker, advising of the purchase of October and Decem-
ber cotton and also the purchase of July wheat.
Robert
decided
to
console
himself by
reading
the
Bible.
He read Job, and realized that he,
too, would
have patience to wait until his time should come.
!N'oth-
ing could shake his faith in Marie or shake his faith
in the wisdom
of Almighty God whom, Robert fully
believed, would answer his prayer.
He hoped that be-
fore the day was over, some news of Marie would surely
come.
As he was reading the Bible the bellboy brought him
a
letter stamped
Texarkana,
and,
of
course,
Robert
hoped
it contained some news of Marie.
He opened
it hastily and read
:

--- PAGE 163 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
155
Texarkana, Texas.
June
6,
1927.
Mr. Robert Gordon.
Planters Hotel,
St. Louis, Mo.
Dear Robert:
We are deeply grieved over Marie's disappearance but are
hopeful that no harm has come to her.
From what Mr. Ken-
nelworth tells us of the letter she wrote you, we believe she
is
returning to school or home, and we are waiting news of her
with hope.
While Marie
is quite young and we thought too young to
marry, and you too, are very young and could well afford to
wait a few years, we now realize that if a delay would inter-
fere with your happiness and
Marie's, we would gladly con-
sent to an immediate marriage.
We regret that we have mis-
judg^ed you, Robert, and are proud to know more about you
from those who have known you
intimately.
Parents often
make mistakes in opposing their children and frequently the
interference of parents in the marriage of their children sep-
arate two that God has joined together.
Man can only put
asunder the physical bodies, but what God doeth
is forever.
We are very happy to know of your loyalty to Marie, your
faith in God and your great ambitions to succeed, according
to the rules laid down in the Bible.
Shall be very happy to
notify you promptly of any news from Marie and will kindly
ask you to do the same for us.
Believe us
Sincerely your
friends,
William and Mary Stanton.
When Robert
received and read this
letter he was
deeply touched and
felt
that
a reward must
always
come to those whose intentions are honest and honor-
able, so he sat down and answered the letter.

--- PAGE 164 of 432 ---

154
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
St.
Louis,
Missouri,
June 7, 1927.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Stanton,
Texarkana,
Texas.
Dear friends:
I
feel like addressing you as friends because sorrow often
makes
us
all
friends,
and am
enclosing
a poem—''Trouble
Brings Friends," which
I think
is very appropriate.
Mater-
linck
said,
"Men help
each
other by
their
joy, not by
sor-
row," but
it
is my belief that we are often led to extend help
in time of sorrow which we would never think of doing
in
time of joy or happiness.
I quote from John 16
: 22—"And
ye now therefore have sorrow; but I will see you again, and
your hearts
shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from
you."
I hope and pray that the day
is not far distant when
our
hearts
will
rejoice
together
with
the
return
of
Marie.
Marie means everything to me and I honor and respect you
as her parents.
I believe that you acted as you thought best
for Marie's future, and can find no fault with your good and
honest intentions, regardless of the suffering
it has caused me
or
the
sorrow and
disappointment
it may
have brought
to
Marie.
I wish to do only that which
is honorable and best
for all concerned, and if Marie returns I will agree to submit
to your
decision and wait
until
she has
finished
her course
in college before we are married.
I wish to take my part of
the responsibility for Marie's elopement because I urged her
into action.
I wanted to go to you and talk the matter over
but she
felt sure that you would never consent to our mar-
riage and said the only thing to do was to elope.
Marie
felt
all along when I was a struggling boy without
money, that you would never consent to her marrying below
her station in
life and
this,
as much as anything
else, made
me ambitious to achieve success and prove to you that even tho
I was bom of poor parents and started without anything
in
life, I could make a great success and accumulate money.
To

--- PAGE 165 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
155
me money means nothing and I would gladly give every dol-
lar I have ever made just to spend one hour with Marie, and I
am
sure
that
this
is no
boyish
love
affair
or
trick
of
the
imagination.
While
it is my first love,
it will endure forever.
Time will prove that Marie means everything to me.
I thank you for your kindness and consideration and hope
and pray
that we may
soon have good news
in regard
to
Marie.
Sincerely yours,
Robert Gordon.
Poem enclosed with Robert's
letter:
It's seldom trouble comes alone,
I've
noticed
this:
when
things go wrong
An' trouble comes a-visitin'
It always brings a friend along;
Sometimes
it's one you've known before.
And then perhaps
it's some one new
Who stretches out a helping hand.
An' stops to see what he can do.
If never trials come to us,
If grief an' sorrow passed us by,
If every day the sun came out.
An' clouds were never in the sky,
We'd
still have neighbors,
I suppose.
Each one pursuin'
selfish ends,
But only neighbors they would be,
We'd never know them
as
our
friends.
Out of the troubles I have had
Have come my richest friendships
here,
Kind hands have helped to bear my care.
Kind words have fallen on my ear;
An' so I say when trouble comes
I know before the storm shall end
That I shall find my bit of care
Has
also brought to me
a friend.

--- PAGE 166 of 432 ---

166
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XIII
THAT afternoon^ after three o'clock, when the after-
noon newspapers were out, he bought a paper and
found that cotton and wheat had advanced many points
and
that he now had a nice
profit on the purchases
made that morning.
Indeed, the gods of good fortune
and finance were smiling on Robert, but the Goddess
of Love was frowning and he must have patience.
As
the sun was slowly setting and the day was waning, he
watched
in
sadness because no news had come from
Marie.
He firmly resolved that he would carry out his
intention and place the personal notice in the papers
the following day for news of Marie,
if something did
not come that evening.
Robert
called Mr.
Kennelworth on
the
'phone
in
Texarkana and again met with disappointment.
ISTot
a word had been heard from Marie and her parents
were now growing more anxious and feared that there
had been some accident or foul play in some way.
They
were making
a
search
in every
direction;
City and
County
officials had been notified and
all the schools
thruout the country were on the lookout for Marie and
making every effort to obtain some information about
her.
Robert told Mr. Kennelworth about his plan to
insert the personal notice and Mr. Kennelworth agreed
with him.
He thought
it would be a good idea and
lie believed that if she were secretly hiding somewhere,

--- PAGE 167 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
167
she would
surely
see
the papers because
she
herself
would be anxious to know what happened to Robert and
what he was doing.
Robert arose early on Wednesday morning, June 8th,
hastened to the newspaper
o;ffices and placed the per-
sonal notices
to appear the following day.
When he
returned to his
hotel, for the
first time since Sunday
he thought of his birthday, June 9th, when he would
be 21 years of age.
When he thought of this a great
hope came into his mind.
He decided that Marie, for
some unknown
reason, was hiding until
his birthday
and intended that they should be married on that day
and she was going to be his birthday present.
Robert's
imagination went wild.
He was elated over the hope.
It seemed like a sudden inspiration to him.
It would
be just like Marie to wait until his birthday to give him
the surprise of his life, and think this delay would only
try his faith and patience and she would know just how
much she meant to him, but did not think
it too long
to keep him waiting
if he really loved her as he said
he did ; that he would have patience and wait.
Robert was sure that his advertisements in the papers
the following day were going to bring results and that
probably Marie, just as soon as she saw
it, would come
to him.
So he really began to plan and hope and get
ready
for
a marriage
to take place on
his birthday.
He was so happy over this sudden thought,
so elated
that he 'phoned Mr. Kennelworth again that night and
told him
all about
it.
Mr. Kennelworth, half-hearted
but hopeful, agreed with Robert that there might be
something in
it, that Marie might have had some plan

--- PAGE 168 of 432 ---

158
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
of this kind in mind, and sincerely hoped that Robert
was right and that this birthday would be the happiest
of his life.
After Robert talked with Mr. Kennelworth, he im-
mediately called Walter Kennelworth on the 'phone in
'New York, told him
all that had happened, about his
placing the personal notices
in the
papers,
about
his
hopes and theories that Marie would show up on his
birthday.
Walter said that it would be just like her to
do a trick of that kind and that this might be just what
it all meant.
He thought that Robert had struck on the
right idea and was hopeful, too, that the marriage would
take place on Robert's birthday.
He was to call Robert
on the 'phone the next day or Robert should
call him
just
as soon
as he got any news.
Walter wanted
to
send congratulations for his birthday and his wedding
day.
The fact that Walter was so cheerful and shared
Robert's views and hopes in the matter, made Robert
much happier.
After Robert had talked with Walter,
the
bellboy
came and brought a
special-delivery
letter and a
tele-
gram.
Robert opened the telegram hurriedly, hoping
that
it was something from Marie, but found
it was a
telegram from his mother in which she congratulated
him on his birthday the following day, and encouraged
him to hope for the best and not give way to despair
in case Marie did not show up.
The special-delivery
letter was also from Robert's mother, and read:
My dear Son,
Your good
friend, Mr. Kennelworth,
has been out
to
see
me and told all that has happened.
My son, I counsel you to

--- PAGE 169 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
159
have patience and faith.
Love endures much and
is not
dis-
couraged.
I believe everything happens for the best, my boy,
and
it may be
that Marie thought
that you were both
too
young to marry.
If this was her view, I would say
it would
hurt neither of you to wait a few years longer.
While
I
cannot understand
the mysterious way
in which
Marie disappeared, at the same time I hope, pray and believe
that she
is alive and will come into your life again when you
most need her and are better prepared for her than you are
now.
I know that
it will be hard for you to see and realize
that
it might be for the best for her to go out of your life
at this time, but even Marie may be wiser than we know.
She
may want to test your love and test her love for you.
If this
is the
case,
it will
all turn out for the best for both of you.
If your
love
is strong enough
to endure
it and wait a few
months or a few years, no harm can come later.
If Marie can
bear to be separated from you and remain faithful and loyal
to you for a few months or a few years, then she will mean
more to you when she comes back to you again.
I pray for you each night and pray that everything may
come out
all right.
I
still have great faith and confidence in
you, my
boy.
Want you
to
stick
to your
faith and your
religion.
Read the Holy Bible and follow
it as you have in
the past and everything that the good God can do will come
to you in due time.
Write me of your plans and what you
intend
to
do.
Send me a telegram as soon as you have any
news, one way or the other.
I anxiously await news of Marie
and wish that I could be with you
to comfort you because I
know you need me when you haven't Marie.
Devotedly,
Your Mother.
Robert was happy to get
tlie letter from
liis mother
because she always encouraged him and he knew that
no matter what happened^ her faith in him would
al-
ways remain the same and her love would endure for-

--- PAGE 170 of 432 ---

160
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
ever.
He retired that night after having a light supper,
very happy, looking forward to his birthday with great
hopes and
expectations.
His
21st birthday meant
a
great deal to him, meant more than any other birthday
because he hoped that it would bring Marie.
He knew
that he had stood the test of her absence and that he
had unwavering faith, that the had never doubted her
motive, no matter even
if he could not understand
it,
and that he would not censure her actions.
When Marie
returned and was once sure that she knew
all this, he
would mean more to her than he had ever before and
she would only love him the more.
After
all, perhaps
this
little disappointment would mean something good
in the future.
That night he read over
all the poems that Marie
had ever written him or sent him, and read over the
poems that he had written her, because he had kept a
copy of them.
He read the poem where he wrote
^^If
your aim
is high and honest,
in victory
it will
tell;
Before the pearl is gotten, there must be a broken shell
!''
Again Robert realized that the shell had been broken
worse this time than ever before, or at least
it seemed
that way to him.
Yet
at the same time
it was not a
break because Marie had left him with love, and their
last good-night kiss on the train had been one of supreme
faith and trusting love which had been built up over a
period of years in which there had been many obstacles
to overcome, hard struggles and disappointments.
Rob-
ert prayed
his usual
night prayer
for the
protection
of Marie and went to sleep, to dream of his birthday.

--- PAGE 171 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
161
Robert Gordon's 21st Birthday
Robert arose early on June
9tli.
Hurried down to
the desk to ascertain
if any telegrams had come over
night or any 'phone
calls, but found no telegrams and
no messages.
It was yet too early for the morning mail.
Robert secured the morning papers and saw his personal
notices which he had instructed the papers to continue
to run.
He had added the name of his hotel and tele-
phone number so that Marie could reach him promptly.
Somehow he had a feeling that
just about
11
or
12
o'clock that day Marie would
call
at the hotel or he
would have some good news from her.
After having his breakfast, he waited for the
first
mail, but there were no letters for him and up to this
time no telegrams had been received.
He decided to go
down
to a
brokerage
office and
see how
the market
opened.
Cotton and wheat had advanced the day before
and cotton opened higher and was strong this morning,
and wheat was also holding up well.
Robert found that
Major Motors was selling around 203 and he knew that
his broker must have sold 500' shares short for him at
this
price.
He figured that Major Motors would not
advance above 205^/2 before it started on a big decline.
So he said to himself, ^'This is going to be a real happy
birthday.
I am making money fast now in wheat and
cotton and will soon be making money in stocks."
Right
Aeroplane was also strong and his profits were piling
up on this.
He figured up his profits on Cotton, Wheat
and Stocks and on this birthday he was worth $30,000.

--- PAGE 172 of 432 ---

162
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
The money meant nothing to him.
He would gladly
give every cent of it to have Marie as a hirthday present.
His hopes remained high and somehow he felt that he
would have Marie as well as the financial success.
Just
as he was figuring up his profits and thinking about
it
an old saying came to him:
"Lucky at cards, unlucky
in love.''
He wondered if this could be, that he would
be lucky in making money in speculation and
at the
same time unlucky in his love affairs; but hoped and
prayed
that
this was
the
last
disappointment
in
his
love affairs and that this birthday was to be the turn-
ing point and that some news would come from Marie.
He decided to forget about the market as everything
was moving along his way and returned to the hotel
to wait for news of Marie.
Lie
still had a hope or an
imagination that around 11 or 12 o'clock Marie would
either come to the hotel or some news from her would
be received.
Upon returning to the hotel he found no
mail and no telegrams or telephone messages awaiting
him.
When
11
o'clock came Robert's mind reverted
back to Sunday when he was watching the clock in the
Union Station, hoping and waiting for Marie to appear.
Robert became a
little restless and more than anxious
as the minutes went
by.
The clock struck twelve on
his birthday and no Marie and no news from her.
A
few minutes after 12 his bell rang and a messenger boy
appeared with a telegram.
"Ah," Robert thought, "this
is from Marie or some news from her."
But
it was a
telegram of congratulations from his old
pal, Walter,
who asked that he convey the
first news which he
re-
ceived in regard to Marie and stated that he hoped be-

--- PAGE 173 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
163
fore the day was over lie could congratulate Robert on
Ms marriage to Marie. A little later in the day Robert
received a long telegram from Mr. Kennelworth,
con-
gratulating him on his birthday and offering words of
encouragement,
also telling Robert that he expected to
leave
Texarkana
on
Friday
night,
June
10th,
and
arrive in St. Louis some time in the morning and that
Robert should be ready to start with him to 'New York,
as
he wanted
to
be
there when
Lindbergh
arrived.
Robert received another telegram from his mother con-
gratulating him on his birthday and wishing him every
success and happiness.
These messages were very encouraging but it was now
2 o'clock and Robert began to be keenly disappointed—he
had raised his hopes so high that Marie would appear
or some news would come.
Lie paced the floor in anx-
iety, his heart beating rapidly and was forced to admit
to himself that he had been over hopeful.
He started
to send a telegram to Mr. Kennelworth asking him to
wire
or
'phone
just
as
soon
as
possible
if any news
had been received of Marie and asked him to
call up
Marie's parents and find out if they had heard anything.
Minutes now began to drag slowly, as they had on Sun-
day when Robert had watched the clock and saw
his
hopes slowly waning.
They were now waning again and
Robert grew
heartsick,
but
cheered himself with the
thought
that
the day was
not
over
yet.
There was
plenty of time for Marie to show up.
Robert decided to read awhile to quiet his
anxiety.
He picked up the book of "Poems That Have Helped
Me." and read the "Isle of Long Ago."

--- PAGE 174 of 432 ---

164
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Oh, a wonderful stream
is the River Time,
As
it flows thru the realm of years,
With a faultless rhythm and a musical rhyme.
And a broader sweep and a surge sublime,
As it blends with the ocean of years.
How the winters are drifting, like flakes of snow.
And the summers like buds between;
And the years in the sheaf—so they come and they go
On the river's breast, with
its ebb and
flow.
As they glide in the shadow and sheen.
There's a magical
Isle up the River Time,
Where the softest of airs are playing.
There's a
cloudless sky and a
tropical
clime.
And a voice as sweet as a vesper chime.
And the Junes with the roses are staying.
And
the name of this Isle
is the Long Ago,
And we bury our treasures there;
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of snow
There are heaps of dust, but we love them so!
There are trinkets and tresses of hair.
There are fragments of songs that nobody
sings,
And a part of an infant's prayer,
There's a harp unswept and a lute without
strings.
There are broken vows and pieces of rings.
And the garments she used
to wear.
There are hands that are waved when the fairy shore
By the mirage is lifted in air;
And we sometimes hear through the turbulent roar
Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before.
When the wind down the river
is
fair.
Oh, remembered for aye be the blessed Isle
All the day of our life till night,
And when evening comes with
its
beautiful
smile,
And our eyes are closing in slumber awhile.
May that "Greenwood" of soul be in sight.

--- PAGE 175 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
165
It made him realize that on the "river of time'' there
are
many
trials,
tribulations
and
disappointments.
While he was young in years he had experienced many
of them, and
it seemed to him that the last
five days
had been ^\e years.
When he read the lines
of the
poem : "Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
when the wind down the river is fair'' and "Our eyes are
closing in slumber awhile," he thought of Marie, her
beautiful eyes and sweet voice ; all the happy things she
had ever said ; the things that she had written, and like
a
voice coming
across
the
stillness
of
the
night,
he
seemed to hear Marie calling as she used to call : "Rob-
ert, dear," "Robert dear."
He jumped from his chair,
startled, because for a moment he thought
it was her
voice, for he had been hoping and expecting each moment
to hear her voice, but alas it was only a ghost of imagi-
nation and no Marie was there and no news of her.
Robert turned another page and read: "Crossing the
Bar," by Tennyson:
Sunset and evening
star,
And one
clear
call for me,
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
When I put out to
sea.
But such a tide as moving seems
asleep,
Too full for sound and foam.
When that which drew from out the boundless deep,
Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell,
And after that the dark;
And may there be no sadness of farewell,
When
I embark.

--- PAGE 176 of 432 ---

166
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
For
tho' from out our bourne
of time and
place,
The flood may bear me
far,
I hope to see my Pilot face to face
When I have crossed the bar.
He read the last verse several times.
Robert thought of Marie, his pilot, his star, his hope.
When he had driven his ship across the uncertain sea
of
finance
it
would
be
Marie's
beautiful
face
that
would keep the lovelight burning upon the altar of his
heart, ever to guide her captain. safely home.
He had
looked to her to pilot him into the path of peace, lead
him to the
fields
of contentment
and,
at
last,
to
the
height
of
eternal
peace.
He had
looked forward
to
this day,
his birthday^ when she would return to him
and
he might
claim
her
for
his
own.
Thought
of
Marie's words, that hope and anticipation are greater
than realization, but felt that nothing in the world could
give him greater pleasure than the realization of this
moment
if he could hold Marie in his arms,
kiss her
sweet
lips and hear the sweet words of love she had
spoken to him in the past.
Robert's heart for a moment
sank within him.
It was too much for him.
He sobbed
and cried like a baby but then he thought of his faith,
of God and his power supreme.
Again as he was wondering what to
do, he got the
crumpled note that Marie wrote and put in his pocket
on Sunday and read it again: ^^According to your faith,
be I unto you.
Love will always hope, understand and
wait.
Time proves all things.
You will get everything
you want.
I will come to you when I mean the most
and your need for love
is the greatest."
Only a few

--- PAGE 177 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
167
short lines, but so much said in them and so much left
unsaid, Robert thought.
Yet they contained an assur-
ance, they left no doubt about a hope for the future and
on that hope and with that faith Robert would cling to
the future.
Time would prove his love.
Marie stated
plainly that he would get everything he wanted and he
knew that the greatest thing in the world he wanted was
Marie.
So
at the close of another day of disappoint-
ment he felt that there was room for hope and that the
future was
lined with
hopes.
He
resolved
never
to
waver.
Then read ^'A Psalm of Life" by Longfellow:
Tell me not in mournful numbers
Life
is but an empty dream,
For the soul
is dead that slumbers,
And things are not what they seem.
Life
is real
!
Life
is earnest
!
And the grave is not
its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the
soul.
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow,
Is our destined end or way;
But to
act, that each tomorrow
Find us farther than today.
Art
is long and Time
is fleeting,
And
our
hearts,
though
stout
and
brave.
Still,
like muffled drums,
are beating
Funeral marches to the grave.
In the world's broad field of battle,
In the bivouac of Life,
Be not like dumb, driven cattle
!
Be a hero in the strife!

--- PAGE 178 of 432 ---

168
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Trust no future, howe'er pleasant!
Let the dead Past bury its dead!
Act—act in the living present!
Heart within and God overhead.
Lives of great men
all remind us
We can make our lives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time.
Footprints,
that perhaps another,
Sailing o'er life's solemn main,
A forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, shall take heart again.
Let us, then, be up and doing.
With a heart for any fate;
Still
achieving,
still
pursuing,
Learn to labor and to
wait.
When he got to the verse
Trust no
future, howe'er pleasant!
Let the dead Past bury its dead!
Act—act
in the living present!
Heart within and God o'erhead.
Robert now
fully
realized
that he must
trust
to the
future
if he intended to live and continue to make a
success and complete his discoveries and inventions.
He
read the last verse slowly and carefully:
Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any
fate;
Still achieving,
still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.'
This sounded much better to Robert.
He was willing
to learn to labor and wait and
felt that
if he waited
there would be a reward^ because Marie had promised

--- PAGE 179 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
169
him and he knew that Marie would keep her promise,
and nothing could ever take from him that hope, that
knowledge that Marie would keep her promise.
Then he read another
little poem: "The Spring of
Love."
A little sun, a little rain,
A soft wind blowing from the West,
And woods and
fields are sweet again
And warmth within the mountain's
breast.
A little love, a
little trust,
A soft impulse, a sudden dream.
And life as dry as desert dust,
Is fresher than a mountain stream.
He knew that he had great love and great trust, and
that that love, and the hope of Marie, would give him
ambition and courage to continue on.
It was now get-
ting late and no news had come of Marie.
Robert real-
ized
his birthday was passing and
his hopes
for the
present were blasted.
He read the poem, "Lead Kindly Light"
:
Lead,
kindly
Light,
amid
the
encircling
gloom.
Lead thou me on!
The night
is dark and I am far from home,
Lead thou me on!
Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to
see
The
distant
scene—one step enough for me
I was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou
Shouldst lead me on;
I loved to see and choose my path, but now
Lead thou me on!
I loved the garish day, and,
spite of fears.
Pride ruled my will:
remember not past years.

--- PAGE 180 of 432 ---

170
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
So long thy power hath
blessed
me,
sure
it
still
Will lead me on;
O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent
till
The night
is gone;
And with the morn those angel
faces smile
Which I have loved long since, and
lost awhile.
The last few lines of the final verse impressed him
strongly.
Robert
felt
that
Marie was
only
lost
for
awhile and that on the coming morning he would meet
the future with a smile, face
it with hope, courage and
determination and make some new plans;
figure some
other new way by which he might locate Marie or obtain
some news
of her whereabouts.
Realizing more than
ever that hope deferred maketh the heart grow
sick,
Robert read everything in the Bible that he could find
on love.
At last he read the song of Solomon.
Robert knew that he would never leave his first love
and go back on her^ that that was the one love of his
life and that
it would remain so long as there was life
in his body.
With this resolve in his heart he decided
to face the future with hope.

--- PAGE 181 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
171
CHAPTER XIV
ROBERT
bought
evening newspapers and
looked
over the Financial Page ; noted that cotton, wheat
and corn had advanced that
day.
His birthday had
indeed been a success,
financially, and his 21st birth-
day found him on
top
of
the
world,
but
this was
not what counted with Robert.
The great disappoint-
ment was that his hopes for Marie on that day were
blasted, but he had not given up.
As he looked over the
newspapers he saw an advertisement headed, "Madam
Cleo,"
Clairvoyant.
The
advertisement
stated
that
Madam Cleo could re-unite the separated and bring back
lost lovers.
While Robert had never been to a clairvoy-
ant and his only faith was in astrology, and science laid
down in the Bible, in desperation he decided to grasp
at any straw.
Early on the morning of June 10th he
called to see Madam Cleo.
She told him that he had
gone thru a great sorrow but that his sweetheart would
return
to him
in a few
days, he
should
be
of good
cheer because Marie loved him only; that
it had been
a case of nervous indecision which had caused Marie to
disappear, and that she would return just as suddenly
as she had disappeared.
Robert felt more hopeful and returned to his hotel,
hoping
to
get some news
of Marie.
There were no
letters
or telegrams.
He
called up the broker's
office

--- PAGE 182 of 432 ---

172
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
to find out how cotton and wHeat were that morning
and found that they were strong and higher. His
cal-
culations showed that wheat and cotton should he top
for a reaction on June 10th so he wired his broker in
ITew York to sell out his wheat and cotton.
Com was
down that morning,
so he telegraphed the broker
to
buy 20,000 bushels of September com.
After sending
this telegram, he glanced over the morning paper and
saw an advertisement headed, "Professor O. B. Joyful/'
Astrologer.
Robert eagerly read the advertisement be-
cause the name attracted him.
And he was looking for
something
to make him
joyful.
Professor
Joyful's
advertisement stated that "with the science of Astrology,
he could
tell when success would
start, when trouble
would end and reveal when marriage would take place.''
Robert was a great believer in Astrology because he had
found this great science referred to
so many times in
the Holy
Bible.
Robert remembered reading
in the
Psalms 111:2:
The works of the Lord are
great, sought out of
all them
that have pleasure therein.
He had made notes
as he read the Bible
at
different
times where it referred to Astrology or the signs in the
heavens and was thoroughly convinced that the
influ-
ence of the heavenly bodies govern our lives.
Genesis 1:7, 16 and 18:
And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which
were under the firmament from the waters which were above
the firmament:
and
it was
so.
And God made two great lights; and the greater
light
to

--- PAGE 183 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
173
rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night:
he made
the stars
also.
And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide
the light from the darkness;
and God saw that
it was good.
Genesis 7:2:
Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the
male and his female; and of beasts that are not clean by two,
the male and
his female.
Joshua 10:12 and 14:
Then spake Joshua to the Lord in the day when the Lord
delivered up the Amorites before the children of
Israel, and
he
said
in
the
sight
of
Israel,
Sun,
stand
thou
still upon
Gibeon; and thou. Moon, in the valley of Ajalon.
And there was no day
like that before
it, or after
it, that
the Lord hearkened unto the voice of a man;
for the Lord
fought for Israel.
Samuel 22
: 8
:
That
all of you have conspired
against me, and
there
is
none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with
the sons of Jesse, and there
is none of you that
is sorry for
me,
or sheweth
unto me
that my
son
hath
stirred up my
servant against me, to
lie in wait, as at this day?
Job 22:14:
Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth notj and
he walketh in the circuit of heaven.
Job 26:10 and 11:
He hath compassed the waters with bounds,
until the day
and night come to an end.
The
pillars
of heaven
tremble, and
are astonished
at
his
reproof.

--- PAGE 184 of 432 ---

174
THE TUNNEL IHRU THE AIR
Job 37:18:
Hast thou with him spread out the
sky, which
is
strong,
and as a molten looking glass?
Psalms 19:1, 4 and 6:
The heavens
declare the glory of God: and the firmament
sheweth his handywork.
Their
line
is gone out thru
all the earth, and their words
to
the end
of
the
world.
In them hath he
set a tabernacle
for the sun;
His going forth
is from
the end
of the
heaven, and
his
circuit unto the ends
of
it:
and
there
is nothing hid from
the heat thereof.
Psalms 136
: 7 and 9
:
To him
that made
great
lights:
for
his mercy
endureth
for ever:
The moon and
the
stars to rule by night:
for
his mercy
endureth for
ever.
Proverbs 8:27 and 28:
When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he sat a
compass upon the face of the depth;
When he established
the
clouds above; when he
strength-
ened the fountains of the deep;
Ecclesiastes
1
: 3 and 5
:
What
profit hath a man of
all
his labour which he taketh
under the sun?
The sun also
ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth
to his place where arose.
Isaiah 40
: 22
:
It
is he that
sitteth upon the
circle of the
earth, and the
inhabitants thereof are
as grasshoppers;
that
stretcheth
out

--- PAGE 185 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
175
the heavens as a
curtain, and spreadeth them out
as
a
tent
to dwell
in;
Isaiah 43
: 5
:
Fear not; for I am with thee:
I will bring thy seed from
the east, and gather thee from the west;
Ezekiel
1
: 22
:
And
the likeness of
the firmament upon the heads of the
living
creature
was
as
the
colour
of
the
terrible
crystal,
stretched forth over their heads above.
Amos 9:6:
It
is he
that buildeth
his
stories
in the heaven, and hath
founded his troop in the earth; he that ealleth for the waters
of the
sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth;
the Lord
is
his name.
Habakkuk 3:2:
Lord, I have heard thy speech, and was afraid;
Lord,
revive thy work
in the midst of the
years,
in
the midst
of
the years make known; in wrath remember mercy.
St. Matthew 24: 29 and 30:
Immediately
after
the
tribulation
of
those days
shall
the
sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and
the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens
shall
be
shaken.
And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man, in heaven
:
and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall
see
the Son
of man coming
in
the
clouds
of heaven,
with
power and great glory.
Robert knew that the Bible was replete with refer-
ences that the heavens ruled.
He had read where it said
:

--- PAGE 186 of 432 ---

176
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
^'Discern the end from
tlie beginning"; where Jesus
said:
^^I will judge you in the place of your nativity."
He hastened
to the
office of Professor 0.
B.
Joyful
in the hope that the great science of Astrology would
throw some light upon the disappearance of Marie.
The
secretary told him that the Professor was very busy
and as Robert had no appointment, he would have to
wait
awhile.
Glancing around the walls of the
office
he saw some beautiful cards of poems hanging on the
walls.
One was entitled, "The power of Love."
This
attracted Robert's attention
:
Sunbeams
after showers
are
brightest,
Seeking sorrow
is a sin;
Woman's heart
is ever lightest
When love, the jewel, dwells within.
Robert thought that this was a wonderful poem and
he knew that
it applied to man as well as woman, be-
cause his heart was ever light when love dwelled within ;
knew that
it was Marie's beautiful eyes and the hope
of seeing them again, which was guiding him now across
the troubled
sea of time.
He anxiously awaited the
time when he could tell his troubles to Professor Joyful,
hoping that they would soon be turned
into joy.
He
read another poem on the wall:
Love
is a gift to be used every day,
Not to be smothered and hidden away,
Love
is not a thing to be stored in the chest
Where you gather your keepsakes.
And treasure your best.
Love
is a gift you should use every day.
—NoRAH Perkins.

--- PAGE 187 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
17T
Robert knew that
lie was using love every day and
it
seemed that the Professor had prepared his office to re-
ceive those in love.
Another poem read
:
We starve each other for love's caress;
We take, but we do not give;
We know it is easy some soul to bless,
But we dole out
affection, giving
less and
less,
Until the world becomes bitter and hard.
Robert felt that he had not been stingy with his love for
Marie and that he had showered his affection npon her.
The Bible said that love begetteth love and he knew if he
received as he gave, his reward would be the return of
Marie and her love.
By this time, the secretary announced that Professor
Joyful was ready to receive him.
He entered the Pro-
fessor's
office, where he met a middle-aged man whose
kindly face indicated that he had sympathy for those in
trouble.
Robert stated briefly his troubles.
Upon being
asked his date of birth, said he was bom June 9th, 1906.
The Professor made out
his horoscope hurriedly and
told him that Venus and Mars were in conjunction by
transit
in the
sign Leo, which ruled
the heart;
that
Venus applied to a trine of Uranus, and that while he
could give him hopeful news and could assure him from
his horoscope that he would one day
find Marie, he
could not offer false hopes and state that he would find
her within a few days.
Said there was a possibility of
his finding her within two years, but it would probably
be three or four years before she would ever come into
his
life
again.
In view
of the fact that Venus was

--- PAGE 188 of 432 ---

178
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
separating from a conjunction of Mars on
tlie day he
had called to inquire about Marie, the indications were
that his sweetheart, Marie, would be separated farther
from him rather than come closer to him at this time.
He assured Robert that Marie was alive, that no harm
had come
to
her, and that none would,
that she was
carrying
out
her own
secret
plans;
was
faithful
to
Robert, and had no other lover.
He told Robert that
he was a born genius and in the next few years would
make a great success in speculation and in the field of
aviation.
While Robert was disappointed, he felt that
this
scientific man was telling the truth and
decided
to take his advice, try to be patient, and
to face the
future with hope.
The Professor told Robert that his
horoscope
indicated
that he would
eventually
realize
all his hopes and ambitions.
Venus, in the sign Can-
cer, promised happiness in love affairs eventually, but
Neptune therein indicated a skeleton in the family closet
and some
secret mysterious happenings in connection
with the home and domestic relations.
Robert told him
of his plans to go to New York and the Professor stated
that New York City was ruled by the sign Cancer, and
in view of the fact that the planet Venus, the Goddess
of Love, was located in that sign, he would eventually
meet or find Marie in New York City.
This cheered
Robert
greatly because he knew he wanted
to go
to
New York to make money in speculation and complete
his inventions.
Professor Joyful told Robert that Venus
progressed in the sign Leo, which rules the heart, would
cause some
great sorrows and heartaches when
there
were afflictions to
it.
He had started the trip with the

--- PAGE 189 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
179
Moon in the sign Leo, ruling tlie heart, but
it had sep-
arated from good aspects and was applying to evil ones.
His ruling planet applied to an evil aspect of Uranus,
indicating great worries following the starting of this
journey.
Said that he had planned his marriage for an
unfortunate day and that
it was better that
it did not
take place at that time.
Assured Robert that there was
no doubt about the realizations of his hopes in the fu-
ture, but that the delay was inevitable.
He told him
that the clairvoyant who promised that he would find
Marie in a few days, was only encouraging his hopes,
and that science, which could be depended upon, did
not
confirm
these
hopes,
or
at
least
the
immediate
realization
of them.
There was a
possibility
of
his
finding
Marie
in
a
foreign
state
or
country
or
that
some news
would come
to him
of
her from
a
great distance.
He asked Robert for Marie's date of
birth.
Robert
told him
that he knew
she was born
on
October
6th,
but
that
he
was
not
sure
of
the
year, but he thought
it was
in
1908.
The Professor
told him that if this date was correct,
it would confirm
all that he had told him and indicated a long delay be-
fore he would find her.
Robert returned to his hotel more hopeful and with
the firm decision to face the future and carry out his
plans, living faithful to Marie.
On his arrival
at the
hotel, he received
a telegram from Mr. Kennelworth,
reading
:
LEAVING ON THE SUNSHINE SPECIAL TONIGHT
ARRIVE ST. LOUIS
SATURDAY MORNING
BE READY TO LEAVE IMMEDIATELY WITH ME
FOR NEW YORK.

--- PAGE 190 of 432 ---

180
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Robert was more cheerful after reading this message be-
cause
since Marie's disappearance be bad
not met
a
man or woman be bad ever known before.
Mr. Ken-
nelwortb was a dear friend of bis and
it would be very
comforting to meet bim and talk over bis troubles.
He
was also anxious to meet bis old pal, Walter Kennel-
wortb, so be decided to get ready to go on to ISTew York.
Tbe big reception for Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh was
planned and would take place in !New York on Monday,
June 13th, and be wanted to be there, but every time
he thought of anything that would give him happiness
or pleasure, he thought of Marie and knew that without
her it would not mean as much to him.
Still he hoped
Marie might appear or that some news of her might be
received before he left.
He wanted to see Captain Lind-
bergh and
bis
plane, ^The
Spirit of
St.
Louis,"
for
Robert was dreaming of the day when he would complete
his own great plane according to Ezekiel's plan.
Robert
went
to
his room and
spent the balance
of the
day
reading the Bible and working out future cycles on wars.
Figured that great opportunities would come for making
money in the Stock and Commodity markets, and that
be was going to make a great financial success and carry
out his plans.
On June 11th, Mr. Kennelworth arrived, Robert met
bim at the Union Station in
St. Louis.
He had only
about an hour to wait before the train departed for ]^ew
York.
ISTo news had been received of Marie.
Mr. Ken-
nelworth told Robert that her parents were still hopeful
that she was alive, but they were at a loss to understand
why she bad not communicated with anyone.
He told

--- PAGE 191 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
181
Robert to keep up his courage for lie felt sure that
all
would end well.
On the train to l^ew York they talked
of Robert's plans. Mr. Kennelworth said he was anxious
for him and Walter to be together again and believed it
was for the
best.
Robert told him that he had been
making money
in wheat and
cotton and
that Right
Aeroplane was moving his way; that he was Short of
Major Motors and expected to make a fortune selling it
all the way down.
Mr. Kennelworth expressed his con-
tinued faith in Robert's ability and told him that he was
going to follow him on the market.
While he admired
him for his great love for Marie and his faith in her,
worry would not bring her back, he said, and he should
get down to business, study the Bible, work on his in-
ventions and leave the matter of Marie's return to the
Lord, trusting and believing in Him who knoweth and
doeth all things well.
Told Robert that he was a "doer"
and not a dreamer ; that he had demonstrated the great-
est ability of any young man he had ever known.
That
he had the pep and quoted an epigram, "The pessimist
says it can't be done, the optimist says, let George do it
:
meanwhile the peptomist has done it."
He said
: "Rob-
ert, you and Lindbergh are peptomists.
You do it while
the other fellow watches and waits, or says
it can't be
done."
He quoted a poem from Tennyson:
I cannot hide that some have striven
Achieving calm, to whom was given
The joy that mixes man with heaven.
Who rowing hard against the stream.
Saw distant gates of Eden gleam
And did not dream it was a dream.

--- PAGE 192 of 432 ---

182
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
"I am sure you are to make your dreams come true.
The Bible says : There is nothing better for a man than
that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor.
Work is the only thing to drown your sorrows.
If you
go to work, complete your inventions and continue to
study, the troubles will disapear.
Time will fly lightly
by and before you know
it, Marie will return to you."
Then Robert repeated a few lines by Dora Greenwald
:
^'Joy is a working thing.
It builds up while
it enlarges the
whole nature.
It is the wine to strengthen the heart, to brace
it to carry noble enterprise.'^
Mr. Kennelworth said, "That is very fine, Robert, but
you must work for the joy that is yet to come and your
great
love
for Marie will strengthen your heart and
brace you to
attain
all your aims.
Love
is the great
power behind the universe and
it
is the greatest of all
powers.
Emotions are the motive power behind every
great achievement, and without emotion nothing will
ever be accomplished.
There are three great emotions
—Love, Fear and Hate, which actuate every deed, good
or bad, and without them, man would accomplish noth-
ing.
The great emotion which
is going
to help you
accomplish
all your
plans
and
realize your
greatest
hopes and ambitions, is Love. A man makes money and
saves
it because he fears the future.
Great nations go
to war and fight because they are urged by the emotion
of Hate.
They are
also fighting thru the emotion of
fear, but if love was the emotion behind all, there would
be no war, no sorrows—no troubles and no jealousies."
Robert then showed a poem on "Love" which he had
written to Marie and one, "The Garden of Love," which

--- PAGE 193 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
183
lie had written at the time he and Marie had their first
break in 1926.
Mr. Kennelworth read these poems and
was very much impressed with
Robert's
ability
as
a
writer.
He said, ^'Robert, this proves to me that Love
brings out the best in a man and that when he finds a
good woman his success
is assured.''
Robert talked of how he had read the Bible where
it
said that there eventually would be one God and one
united people and that Love would rule the world. How,
since a
little boy,
his Mother had talked
against war
and prayed for the day when wars would
cease and
man would follow the command given by Jesus Christ
:
*^Love thy neighbor
as
thyself."
He hoped and
felt
sure that the day would come but that the Bible made it
plain as he understood it, that there would yet be a great
war fought in the air, when deadly chemicals would be
used and the
greater
portion
of the people on
earth
would be killed.
Then would come peace, when God
would
rule the world and Love would be the motive
behind every
act.
Then nations would no longer be-
come jealous of each other and go to war.
Robert said,
"I have made a great study of wars in the past and how
conditions changed; how
at one time Spain was
the
mistress of the seas and later Rome was the controlling
nation ; then England ruled the waves and London was
the banking center of the world.
Then came the great
war in 1914 which changed everything.
England lost
control of the seas.
She lost her power as the great bank-
ing nation of the world.
The gold supply of the world
flowed rapidly to the United States and in the dark days
of 1917, when England and France, after being deserted

--- PAGE 194 of 432 ---

184.
THE TUNNEL THRU THE ADl
by Russia, were fighting witli their backs to tbe wall,
the United States, the land of love and liberty, came to
the
rescue,
helped
to
defeat
the Germans and
saved
England and France.
At that time they were seem-
ingly
very
grateful,
but
after
the
war
conditions
changed.
The United States was no longer in debt to
foreign countries but was now the banking nation of
the world and the foreign countries owed large sums of
money
to the United
States.
This country has
con-
tinued to prosper since the war, the gold supply of the
world now rests here.
Our former friends have become
jealous of the prosperity we enjoy and the power that
we now hold in financial affairs which once belonged to
England.
Some of the foreign countries do not want to
pay their obligations and this jealousy can lead to noth-
ing else but war, as
it always has in the past.
I hope
to be ready when that war comes with my great
air-
plane, and other inventions to help defend my country
and later promote a lasting peace based on love and good-
will.
The United States began as a land of liberty and
has always set an example for the balance of the world
and I hope to see the day when our country will take the
lead in establishing universal peace and the brotherhood
of man.
Captain Lindberg's flight confirms my studies
and forecasts of the future.
Aviation will be developed
rapidly and nations will want to try these new discov-
eries and inventions to conquer other nations, and war
is inevitable.
The Bible prophets foretold
it, and my
studies of the cycle theory also indicate that we are in
a period where cycles will repeat which have caused wax
in the past."
On the afternoon of June 12th, Mr. Kennelworth and

--- PAGE 195 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
185
Robert arrived in "New York City and were met at the
train by Walter.
Robert was very happy to meet his
dearest friend, and
it was consoling
to be with him.
After their arrival, they went to the Hotel Vanderbilt.
Mr. Kennelworth went
out
to
see
a
friend and
left
Robert and Walter to chat alone.
Robert told Walter
of the terrible sufferings he had gone thru since Marie's
disappearance and
of
his
great
disappointment.
He
talked of the success he had made in the market and of
the future when he hoped to complete his great inven-
tion with the aid of Walter and his knowledge of chemi-
cals and make discoveries which would end war for all
times.
But
immediately
after talking
of
his
future
plans his mind would revert back to Marie and he would
start talking about her and bemoaning the fact that with-
out her he could not go on in the future.
Walter told
him to forget about her—that time would bring changes
and that he would find another girl who would take the
place of Marie.
Robert was indignant and told Walter
that time would never change him; that he would
re-
main faithful
to Marie until
death, no matter
if he
never heard of her again.
Walter said that Marie was
too young to know her own mind and was probably in
love with someone
else, or thought she was, which ac-
counted for her sudden change and disappearance from
the train.
Robert then showed him the letter which he
found in his pocket the morning that Marie disappeared.
Walter read
it.
June
5th, 1927.
^
„
3 A.M.
Dearest Robert:
According to your faith, be I unto you.
Love will always
have
faith,
understand
and
wait.
Time
proves
all
things.

--- PAGE 196 of 432 ---

186
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
You will get everything you want; I will come to you when
I mean the most and your need for love
is the greatest.
Lovingly always,
^^^^^
Walter said :
"This is certainly a mysterious letter.
I
don't
understand
it and
I
don't
suppose Marie
did
either. There is nothing in this letter to explain whether
she was leaving you or not, or why or where she was
going or anything about
it.
^Now, Kobert,
don't you
understand real love could never act like that or write
like that ?
There is some secret behind all this and my
opinion is that there is another man in the case."
But
Robert refused to
listen to any such reasoning.
His
faith in Marie was unshaken.
His love for her was
great enough to understand, to have patience and wait.
Marie could or would do no wrong, and no amount of
evidence would ever change him.
Mr.
Kennelworth
returned
to
the
hotel
and
after
dinner told Robert that he wanted to have a confidential
chat with his son, Walter.
Robert decided to go out for
a walk and see the city.
When they were alone, Walter
told his father that he had had a long talk with Robert
and
that
his mind was on nothing but Marie.
His
father said
: "The only thing to do is to help Robert get
interested
in
his work
so
that
he
will
forget
about
Marie.
That is the best thing for him at present.
The
great love that he has for her will be the incentive to
spur him on to success and help him realize his ambi-
tions.
Love is the greatest thing in the world and with-
out
it men would not get very far.
It brings out the
noble and better qualities in a man and should always be
encouraged."

--- PAGE 197 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
187
CHAPTER XY
OlST
the
following
day^ Monday,
June
13tli, Mr.
Kennelworth, Robert and Walter arose early to be
ready
for
Colonel
Lindbergh's triumphant march up
Broadway.
Robert was very enthusiastic about
it and
talked about what a great achievement
it was and what
it meant to the world, especially to the United States.
Walter told him that they must get busy and start to
lay
out
the
plans
to
build
Robert's
great
airplane.
When they started out on the
street, Robert began to
talk of Marie and
said that he hoped that he would
find her
that
day.
Thru
all the surging crowds, he
stared in the face of every woman, hoping that Marie,
if she was
alive, might have decided
to come to l^ew
York for the Lindbergh reception.
It was a great day
for
Colonel
Lindbergh, and
a
great day for Robert,
because
it encouraged
his hope
for the
day,
and
be-
lieved it would come to pass when airplanes would con-
quer the world and bring universal
peace.
He
felt
that a state of perfection could never be reached until
the brotherhood
of man, founded on
love, was
estab-
lished.
Walter told his father and Robert about a great play
that he had been to see:
'^One for All." He was anxious
for them to see it and had secured tickets for that night.
Robert was immediately interested.
He was attracted

--- PAGE 198 of 432 ---

188
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
to Molly and saw
in her great
sacrifice for Eric an
example of Marie.
As the play neared the end, and
Molly was in great sorrow, and her secret sacrifice had
become known to Eric, Robert could restrain his emo-
tions no longer.
He turned to Mr. Kennelworth and
said,
^^I wonder if he'll be man enough to forgive her
and appreciate her, as the greatest woman in the world
for him.
Will his mind be broad enough to realize that
she made the supreme sacrifice because of her unselfish
love.
!b[ow that he has succeeded and has the world at
his feet will he turn from her and condemn her as the
world usually does?"
Mr. Kennelworth
said:
"You
can see that Eric
is now weighing the matter in his
mind and
is
hesitating.
We can only wait and see."
Robert said, "If Eric loves Molly as I love Marie he
will now love her more
after
this.''
Robert watched
Eric with every muscle in his body tense, as Eric read
the
receipt written by
Chattox and
also he watched
Molly and her expression as she leaned over the staircase
and read
the
receipt
over
Eric's
shoulder.
He saw
Eric slowly fold the receipt around the little booties for
the baby and place them in his pocket and walk slowly
away.
Robert was wondering what Eric was thinking
of and what
his
decision would
be.
Then came the
final climax—Eric,
after knowing
all,
took Molly in
his arms and gave her the kiss which Robert knew meant
foregiveness and understanding.
He then realized that
love, just as Molly said in the beginning, was the great-
est thing in the world, and meant more than
all the
money in the world.
Robert jumped to
his
feet and
shouted, "Hurrah for Eric," and said, "that's the kind

--- PAGE 199 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
189
of love I have for Marie and no matter wliat may have
happened or what she should do in the future, my love
is the kind which will understand, forgive and forget."
He
told them how he was
impressed with the
story
in the Bible where the woman was brought before Jesus
accused and how the Jesus said, "Let him who
is with-
out
sin,
cast the
first stone," and when they had
all
disappeared he
said:
"Woman,
doth no man
accuse
thee,"
and
she
answered,
"JSTo,
Lord."
Jesus
said,
"JSTeither do I.
Go your way and sin no more."
Rob-
ert said when the world once realized the great power
of Love, that jealousy, enmity,
all accusations and the
desire for personal gain, would pass away.
That when
Love alone dominated the hearts of men and women,
wars would be no more, and that men would see no evil
in their fellow-men as Eric saw no evil in Molly's sacri-
fice but knew and understood that great love for him was
the motive that prompted her
actions.
Robert quoted
Daniel 2:22:
*'He revealeth the deep and secret things.
He knoweth what
is
in
the
darkness
and
the
light
dwelleth
within
him.
A
kingdom
"v\'hich
shall never
be
destroyed, consume
all
other
kingdoms and stand forever."
He said that when the day came when men were ruled
by the law of love and understood each other, a kingdom
would be established that would never be destroyed, and
that
it would consume all other kingdoms.
Robert be-
lieved that the United States, the land of liberty, was
created never to be destroyed, and that it would eventu-
ally consume
all other nations and rule by the law of
love and justice, that
it was God's will that
it become

--- PAGE 200 of 432 ---

190
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
tlie most prosperous country and tlie banking nation of
the
world.
Believed
that
the
nation
referred
to
in
Psalms 147
; 20 was the United States
:
"He hath not dealt so with any nation and as for his judg-
ments they have not known them.
Praise ye the Lord."
Walter was not
so enthusiastic and sure about the
power of Love as Robert.
You can never tell what a
woman will do, he said and referred to Proverbs 30:18
and 19
:
"There be three things which are too wonderful for me.
Yea,
four which I know not,—the way of an eagle in the
air, the
way of a serpent upon a rock, the way of a ship in the midst
of a sea, and the way of a man with a maid."
Walter said, "The last one
is too much for me and I
would not attempt to discern the way of a maid without
a man.
They go where you know not and return when
you least expect it.
Some wise woman once said, ^When
you know one man, you know
all.'
A wiser man said,
^You never know
a woman,
for
all women .are
dif-
ferent.'
''
Robert said, "It is interesting to go back over history
and read the opinions of the smartest men in regard to
woman.
Confucius
said, ^Woman
is
a
masterpiece.'
Michelet said, ^Woman is a miracle of divine contradic-
tions.'
Lamartine said, ^There
is a woman at the be-
ginning of
all great
things.'
I am wholly in accord
with him.
Go back to the bottom of every great achieve-
ment and back of
it you will find the influence of
a
good woman.
It may be a mother, sister or sweetheart,
but the love of a woman is always the motive behind the
great achievements of men.
Someone once said:
^Nol

--- PAGE 201 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
191
for herself was woman first created, nor yet to be man's
idol, but
his mate/
Pythagoras
said:
'There are in
woman's eyes two sorts of tears, the one of grief; the
other of deceit.'
I think that
is because there are two
kinds of men, one who appreciates love and honor and
gives sympathy; the other kind who
is
selfish, expects
something for nothing and must meet with deceit.
I am
a great believer in sowing and reaping.
We get out of
life just what we put into
it.
If we give love and faith-
fulness, the same returns to us.
Maeterlinck was right
when he said
: 'A man's sweetheart is just as pure as his
thoughts of her are pure.'
I remember reading a poem,
"What thou
lovest, Man,
Become thou must,
God, if thou lovest God,
Dust
if
thou
lovest
dust.
Napoleon said,
'All the women in the world would not
make me lose an hour,' but history shows that N^apoleon
did lose sleep over his love for Josephine.
He wrote to
her—'I am sick of men because they keep me away from
my love. '
Shakespeare expressed it better than all the rest
when he said 'Kindness in woman, not their beauteous
looks, shall win my love.' A real womanly woman whose
heart
is filled with love, cannot be other than kind be-
cause Kindness is a child of Love.
Women may be mys-
terious and we may fail to understand them.
That
is
one
of the
reasons why we
love them
all
the more.
Fontenelle said, 'There are three things I have always
loved
and
never
understood—paintings,
music
and
women.'
He might have added that the greatest of the
three was, woman."

--- PAGE 202 of 432 ---

192
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Then Walter quoted from Southey, " 'There are three
things
a wise man will not
trust,
the wind, the sun-
shine of an April day and a woman's plighted faith.' "
Robert replied—"^Nevertheless nearly every wise man
has loved and trusted some good woman and most
of
them have not
regretted
it.
Walter, you have never
really been in love and you don't know what love
is.
If you did, you would have faith and trust, regardless
of
all conditions."
^'I guess the subject of love and
women is too deep for me," said Walter, and the sooner
you get down to business and your studies and get love
off your mind, the greater success you are going to make."
Robert answered, "Without love this world would never
have
existed.
It was God's
love for the world
that
saved
it.
My love for Marie will make me whatever I
am to be in the future.
Without that love I know I
would be a miserable failure.
The time will come when
you will go to sleep at night with your last thoughts of
beautiful rosy
lips, of eyes that shine like Golconda's
purest gems,
of a voice that
is sweeter than a
night-
ingale, of luxurious hair and of a form that to you
is
more beautiful than Venus, and when you awake in the
morning your first thoughts will be of her.
You will see
her in the beautiful flowers, her face will be reflected
from the
ripple
of the pure waters;
everything you
think about she will appear in connection with.
Your
slumbers will be disturbed.
When you get a fever like
this, you will then know and understand the power of
love.
Then nothing else will matter, only one thing will
count in your life—the woman you love.
A great love
like this must come to every man.
In the Springtime
of life it may be, or in those sunny solaces of the after-

--- PAGE 203 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
193
noon when the waning day brings sadness and man looks
back and longs for the time when he might have loved,
when he was younger and lived longer.
Love
is
the
elixir of life.
It
is a greater cure than any medicine.
It has built up kingdoms and destroyed nations.
You
have ambitions now and a desire for gold, but after all,
Walter, what can
it buy?
All the gold in the world
cannot buy the tender touch of a
little child's fingers
or the lovelight in angel eyes
like Marie's.
It gives
satisfaction that nothing
else
can."
Walter said, ^'Robert, you always drift back to Marie
and her eyes.
Those beautiful black eyes that you talk
about may be wonderful,
but you remember the
old
saying,
^Can you be true to eyes of black or brown,
when blue has smiled on you.'
You will
find that a
change will come sooner or later if Marie doesn't show
up and you will be the better for it."
But Robert was sure that no eyes could ever take the
place of Marie's and Robert handed Walter the follow-
ing poem to read:
HEAL THYSELF
If any brown-eyed
girl has changed her mind
And left you sinking in the consomme,
Calmly smile and
let her go, you'll forget about your woe
(There's a
lot of consolation
to be found in eyes of gray.)
If any brown-eyed girl has left your heart
In forty-seven pieces at your feet,
Then the proper thing to do is to gaze in eyes of blue
(And perhaps you'll find the same are twice as sweet.)
If any brown-eyed girl has given you
Your "exit cue," the "go-by" and "the air,"
And your heart in glad amaze'll heed the lure of eyes of hazel
You can sing that song of Tanguay's, "I Don't Care."

--- PAGE 204 of 432 ---

194
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
If any brown-eyed girl has—well, she did;
Above,
you'll find some good philosophy;
It may do for you,
I
guess, but I really must confess
It has never been a bit of use
to me!
Ben Warren.
^*The
last verse expresses my sentiments
to
a T; no
other eyes will ever have any attraction for me except
Marie's.''
A few days
after 'New York's reception to
Colonel
Lindbergh,
Robert
decided
to
get down
to
business.
He visited his brokers in Wall Street, talked over the
market situation and found that they did not agree with
his
ideas and views.
Decided to open an
office at 69
Wall
Street, and Walter was to work with him when
he had time from his studies.
They consulted about a
stenographer or
office assistant.
Walter had met Miss
Edna Quinton, a very talented girl, whom he thought
was the most competent he had ever known, so Robert
gave her a position in his
office.
Walter was anxious to keep Robert cheerful so went
sight-seeing often and to see all the latest plays.
Robert
was very much interested
in the
play,
^^The Student
Prince.''
Was impressed when the old servant told the
young King the
old
saying, "A promise
keep,
right
well you sleep; a promise break,
all night you wake."
Robert knew that
this was what
caused
the King
to
return to his former sweetheart, but when he gave her
up and married
the
Princess, he was
disgusted
and
disappointed.
Told Walter that he would never break
his promise for anyone; and knew that
if he
did, he
would never be able to sleep soundly again.

--- PAGE 205 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
195
CHAPTER XYI
Robert Gordon's Great Campaign in Cotton
AFTER Robert had sold out
his October cotton
at
^
17.30
and
his
December
cotton
at
17.50
on
June 10th, he decided to watch the market very closely
for a few days because he thought
it would go lower.
His forecast
indicated
last buying
level around June
25th.
He figured that after this time the market would
go higher until September 5th to 6th^ when he figured
it would be final high.
On June 25th October cotton declined to 16.80 and
he bought 500 October at 16.83 and 500 December
at
17.15.
He
figured
that
it would run up
for
about
thirty days so on July 25th he sold 500 October cotton
at 19c and sold 500 December at 19.20 and went short
of 500 December
at
19.20.
The
decline followed
as
he expected.
On July 30th he sold 500 more December
cotton
at
18.60 and on August
6th he bought
1000
December
at
17.40
to
cover
his
short
contracts.
He
figured
that
the
Government
report
on August
8th
would be very bullish and that cotton would go up very
fast and continue until around September 5th to
6th,
or
until
the Government
report
in
September.
On
August
6th he bought 1000 December
at
17.35.
On
August
8th he bought 500 December
at
17.30.
The
Government v/as very bullish as he expected and cotton

--- PAGE 206 of 432 ---

196
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
advanced 200 points on August
8th.
On August 9th
he sold out his 1500 December at 20.30 and sold 1000
December short
at 20.30.
A big decline followed and
on August
13th he bought 1000 December
cotton
at
19.10 and also bought 1000 December at 19.10 for long
account.
He started in to pyramid on the way up.
On
August 19th he bought 500 more December
at 20.10;
on August 22nd he bought 500 December at 21.10; on
August
27th he bought 500 December
at
22.30
and
on August 29th bought 300 December
at
23.30.
On
September 8th the Government report was very bullish
as he had forecast and the market went up.
This was
the time when he expected the market to make final top
for a big decline.
On September 8th he sold 2800 bales
of December
at 24.40 and on the same day sold 2000
bales of December at 24.50 for short account.
On Sep-
tember 9th he sold 500 more December
at 23.30
; on
September 11th sold 300 December at 22.30.
On Sep-
tember 13th he bought 2800 December at 21.60 to cover
his short
contract.
On September 14th he
sold 1000
December at 22.60.
On September 17th sold 500 De-
cember
at 21.60 and on September 21st sold 300 De-
cember at 20.60.
September 23rd he figured that the
market was bottom for a rally and bought 1800 Decem-
ber at 20.60, and on the same day bought 1000 December
at 20.60 for long account.
On September 28th he sold
1000 December
at 22c and
also went short 1000 De-
cember at 22.10.
On September 29th he bought 1000
December
at
21.30
and
on
September
29th
bought
1000 December at 21.30 for long account.
On October
3rd he sold 1000 December at 21.50 and also went short

--- PAGE 207 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
197
of 1000 December at 21.50.
On October 6tli lie bought
1000 December
at
20.75
and went
long,
because he
figured the market would be higher for the Government
report on October 8th.
Robert Goedon's Great Campaign" in Major Motors
On Sunday, June 19, 1927, Robert Gordon spent the
day studying his charts and working out his cycles for
stocks, cotton and grain.
He was short of Major Motors
and was watching it very closely.
On this day he made
a new and great discovery of a time factor from which
he figured that Major Motors would decline until about
June 30th and then start an advance which would last
until about September 16th, 1927, when the Company
would be 19 years old and at that time the stock would
reach final high and would then go down to February
to April,
1929.
He figured that the stock should ad-
vance to around 270 by September 16th and made up
his mind to watch
it closely and cover his shorts
if
it
went down around June 30th, and then
start buying
the stock.
On June 30th it declined and he bought in
his
short
contracts and bought for long account 500
shares of Major Motors at 192^.
He decided to pyra-
mid
it
all the way up.
On July 15th he bought 500
shares at 204; on July 21st he bought 300 at 214 and
on July 26th bought 300 more at 224.
On August 5th
the stock advanced
to 230 and he raised his
stop on
1600 shares to 225.
On August 8th his stock was sold
out at 225.
He still believed that the stock would go up
to around 270 by September 16th but he expected
a
reaction of about 12 to 15 points so he decided to wait

--- PAGE 208 of 432 ---

198
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
for a few days and watch his charts to see how the stock
acted.
On August 12th Major Motors declined to 218,
being down a little over 12 points as he figured, and he
bought 1000 shares
at 218.
He placed a stop
at 212,
a point which he figured
it would not decline to.
The
advance
started, and on August 20th he bought 300
shares at 228
; on August 24th bought 300 shares more
at 238 and on August 26th bought 300 shares more at
248.
When he
started pyramiding,
his plan was
to
buy or sell the largest amount
first and then gradually
decrease buying and selling smaller amounts on the way
up or down, and always using a stop loss order.
On
September 7th the stock advanced to 253 and he raised
his stop on his entire amount to 243.
This stop was
never reached but on September 14th a rapid advance
was on and he bought 300 shares more
at 258, giving
him a line of 2200' shares of stock.
He figured that
it
should
advance
on
September
16th
to
around
270.
When the market advanced to 272 at this time he sold
out his 2200 shares at 272.
He cleaned up a profit on this deal of over $80,000.00,
and
as he figured that the stock w^ould make final top
around this time he decided to put out a line of short
stock and pyramid
all the way down, remaining short
for the long
pull.
On September
I7th he
sold
500
shares of the new Major Motors stock at 138 and 500
shares at 137 and placed a stop on
it at 147.
He had made it a rule that after he had made a large
amount of profits that he would never risk more than
10 per cent of his profits on the first new deal, and that
if that deal went wrong and he lost 10 per cent of the

--- PAGE 209 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
199
capital,
lie would decrease his trading so that the next
loss would only be 10 per cent of his remaining profits.
In this way he figured that the market would have to
beat him ten consecutive times for him to lose
all the
profits he had made^ and
his
studies
of past records
showed that this could never happen.
He placed orders
to sell more Major Motors at 128, 118, 108 and 98 be-
cause he
expected
the
first
decline
to run
until
the
latter part of December, 1927, and after that time he
would put out shoi-ts again on a rally to hold and pyra-
mid on the way down into the Spring of 1929.
His
great discovery of what stocks would do at a certain age
enabled him
to make
enormous
profits when
stocks
reached the age where they would have fast moves up
or down in a very short time.
October, 1927, was a beautiful month in l^ew York.
The weather was warm and the sun shone brightly every
day.
It reminded Robert of the Fall of 1926 when he
had
gone
to
Sherman,
Texas,
to
visit
Marie.
He
thought of what a great change had taken place in one
year, of the fortune that he had made in the market,
but money would not buy relief for his aching heart.
Days, weeks and months had drifted slowly by, but
no word from Marie Stanton.
She seemed to be lost as
though the earth had swallowed her up.
The great decline in stocks which he forecast for the
Fall and Winter of 1927 took place and he made money
rapidly on the short side of stocks.
He was selling short
Central Steel and Major Motors and other stocks.
He
had bought Com and Wheat in October and made big
profits
later
in the year.
Money was
piling up
fast

--- PAGE 210 of 432 ---

200
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
and in the latter part of October,
1927,
lie had made
over
$300,000.
He
had
kept
Marie^s money
in
a
separate account from his own and her original $400.00
was now
over
$20,000.
Robert
continued
to
keep
her account separate; he wanted to make all the money
he could and have
it as a surprise for Marie, to prove
to her his faithfulness and thoughtfulness when she was
away, and also to prove his confidence in her return.
Robert became known as ^The Boy Wizard of Wall
Street."
His fame became known and old men of Wall
Street talked about his marvelous
success.
Robert
re-
fused to be interviewed by the newspapers or tell any-
thing about his method of working in the market.
Sel-
dom ever visited a broker's
office and made very few
friends.
He worked upon his
invention, and Walter
was his sole companion.
Walter had met an old man
by the name of Henry Watson who was a veteran of
Wall Street, now over 70 years of age, had made and
lost many fortunes and had seen the biggest and best
plungers go on the rocks in Wall Street.
Walter intro-
duced Air. Watson to Robert and he became very much
interested
in
the
old
man's
reminiscences.
He
told
Robert the history of Daniel Drew and got him to read
the book of Drew's life, which showed how Drew, after
making
$13,000,000
lost
it
all
and
died
practically
a pauper.
Also told the history of Daniel Sully; how
he
made
$10,000,000
to
$15,000,000
in
the
Cot-
ton market, but by violating natural laws lost
it
all in
a few days in the crash of Cotton in March, 1904, and
then disappeared from the financial horizon.
How Liv-
ermore. the boy wonder of 1907 and 1908, had accumu-

--- PAGE 211 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
201
lated millions, owned fine yachts, lost everything, had
gone thru bankruptcy, but had later recouped his for-
tunes.
How Eugene Scales, another striking example,
who
at one time had over ten millions
dollars paper
profit in the Cotton market, had
lost
all of
it.
How
Allen A. Ryan,
at the height of his fame, when he de-
fied the Gods of Chance and the unwritten law of Wall
Street with the result that his millions were
all
lost,
had to go thru bankruptcy and paid only about twenty
cents on each one hundred dollars.
Mr. Watson also told Robert how Durant had become
the giant motor magnate and formed the General Motors
Corporation in 1908 and had made a great success, ac-
cumulating
millions
before
the war
days
and
after-
wards.
He was in full control of General Motors and
was reputed to be worth over a hundred million dollars
when the stock was selling at $410.00 in the Spring of
1920.
Durant was very bullish and talked of General
Motors going very much higher.
Deflation started in
the Summer of 1920, and
all stocks declined rapidly.
He remained bullish^ continuing to buy General Motors
all the way down.
The stock had been split up on a
ten for one basis and the new stock which sold at $42.00
in March,
1920, an equivalent
of $420.00 per
share,
declined to $14.00 per share in December,
1920, and
finally in the Spring of 1922 sold
at $8.25.
He had
refused to sell ; in fact had bought all his brokers would
let him have
all the way down.
When the
stock de-
clined to $15.00 per
share, Durant was ruined.
His
fortune of over one hundred millions dollars was wiped
out.
The Morgans and Duponts took over his holdings

--- PAGE 212 of 432 ---

W2
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
at a figure reported to be around $5.00 per share, and he
lost control of the gigantic corporation which had made
him famous.
Later Durant organized a new company
and came back fast. He went back into the stock market
and in the great Coolidge Bull campaign from 1924 to
1927 was again a dominant factor in General Motors
and other
stocks and was reputed to have made
fifty
millions, or more.
The old man said that Durant was one of the very
rare exceptions
of men who had gone broke in Wall
Street and had been able to come back after they were
60 years of age.
Told Robert that Wall Street was a
place of ups and downs—mostly downs, and that the
time to quit was when you were young and had made
your money.
Robert
explained
to Mr. Watson
that he was
not
guessing and gambling on hope but was following
sci-
ence and not trading on human judgment as he followed
the law of cycles as laid down in the Holy Bible.
Mr.
Watson said, "I wish you success, and for your benefit
I will give you my opinion as to the cause of most of
the failures in Wall Street, for I know the history of
the men who have made the greatest amounts of money,
and know most
of them
personally.
Selfishness and
greed were the cause of the fall of Daniel Drew.
He
was not loyal to his associates.
His idea was to get the
money and look out for himself regardless of whom he
hurt.
Conditions changed and Drew failed to change
with them.
The
result was
that he
died
a pauper.
Thomas W. Lawson, the man who wrote, Triday the
13th,' was one of the most daring traders that Wall

--- PAGE 213 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
203
Street has ever known, worth at one time probably forty
to fifty million dollars.
He, too, died practically penni-
less.
At
one time Lawson had
the
backing
of
the
Standard Oil crowd and turned against them after they
had helped him to make millions.
In my opinion, he
cut
off the hand that fed him and his ruthless attack
on men who had been his friends, was the cause of his
downfall.
Men must be loyal to positions of trust and
not reveal secrets of great financial deals by which they
profited."
Robert said that was his idea.
As long as a
man remained
loyal
to
his
mother,
his
country,
his
associates ; above all his wife or sweetheart, success was
bound to crown his efforts.
He believed in the law of
compensation ; that when a man broke faith with others,
he had broken faith with himself, and that failure would
follow.
Mr. Watson told Robert that Sully made his money
in cotton, and after accumulating millions, quit special-
izing in cotton and began to trade in stocks and various
other commodities, which divided his attention and he
was unable to concentrate on cotton alone, the thing that
brought him the great success.
^^I could go over the his-
tory of Scales, Livermore, Durant, Ryan and the bal-
ance of the great men of Wall Street, and in analyzing
their trading, the one weak point would be found in all
of them.
They diversified too much.
Did not special-
ize in one commodity or a few special stocks, but spread
all over the board.
The result was they had too many
irons in the fire and when one thing started to go wrong
and they began to lose money, they would invariably get
out of stocks and commodities on which they were mak-

--- PAGE 214 of 432 ---

204
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
ing money and keep those that were going against them.
Another weak point was that when luck turned against
a man in Wall Street, he kept on trying to recoup his
losses instead of stopping just as soon as there was an
indication that the tide had turned against him.
Most
men
at the heights of prosperity
lose their
sense of
good judgment, become inflated with their success, think
they are infalliblO; refuse to follow science or the advice
of anyone, with the result that they continue to buck
the tide till
all their money
is gone."
"Mr. Watson," said Robert, "I believe that if a man
starts out to make money for unselfish purposes, he will
succeed.
That is what I am going to do.
Your experi-
ence is very valuable to me.
Your intimate knowledge
of the cause of the failures of other men is a good les-
son.
I have studied the Bible very carefully because I
believe
it
is the greatest
scientific book ever written.
The laws are plainly laid down how to make a success.
There
is a time and a season for everytliing, and if a
man does things according to the time, he will succeed.
The Bible makes
it plain that not
all are born to be
prophets, nor to be farmers, doctors or lawyers, but that
each can succeed in his own special line, according to
time and place.
If men would only follow the Bible and
know that there is a time to stop trying to make money
and to keep what you have, then wait for another season
when the time is ripe, they could continue to succeed in-
definitely.
Has any man ever made a large fortune out
of WaQ Street and kept
it, Mr. Watson?"
"Oh, yes,"
he replied,
"if there were not exceptions to the rule,
business would not continue to run.
I could tell you of
dozens of them, but one striking example is that of the

--- PAGE 215 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK PROM 1940
205
late E. H. Harriman wlio died worth about three hun-
dred million dollars.
He had probably made out of the
market a hundred million dollars in the
last three or
four years
of his
life."
Robert asked, ^'How did he
do
it ?"
Mr. Watson answered, "He stuck to one class
of stocks—railroads.
He studied them day and night,
never diverted his attention to other
lines.
I believe
that he possessed some mathematical method which en-
abled him to forecast stocks many months and years in
advance.
I have gone over his manipulations and the
stocks he traded in, and found that they conform closely
to the law of harmonic
analysis.
He certainly knew
something about time and season because he bought at
the right time and sold at the right time.
He paid a
great
price
for
his
success,
because he neglected
his
health,
sacrificed everything
to make
his
railroads
a
success and died too young.
Such men are the backbone
of our country's prosperity.
Constructive geniuses of
this kind are few and far between and we need more
of them.
Man's greatest enemy in speculation is 'hope.'
He refuses to face facts, and facts are stubborn things.
Hope spurs us on.
It may be an anchor to the soul, but
a very slim anchor in speculation^ when facts are against
us.''
Mr. Watson told Robert that his friend Walter had
related to him all about his love affair and the disappear-
ance of Marie.
He said, "My boy, the great love you
have for her is now furnishing the hope which will carry
you to success.
When that hope is gone, you will have
to find a new one or you cannot go on."
Robert told
him that Marie had said that anticipation was greater
than
realization.
"Robert," he
said,
"I want
to
tell

--- PAGE 216 of 432 ---

206
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
you the story of my love affair.
I have made and lost
many fortunes in Wall
Street, and when things have
gone wrong and I have reached the depths of despond-
ency, have seen my last dollar fade away, been deserted
by
friends
of my
prosperous
days,
then when
there
seemed nothing else to live for, nothing to make me fight
on, there would come a hope, the angel of memory would
steal over me and I would again hope that some day,
somewhere, I would find my Katie.'' Here the old man's
eyes grew dim with tears.
He drew an old wallet from
his
pocket, took out
a package,
slowly unwrapped
it.
In there was a picture in a little gold frame.
The aged
hands trembled, his voice grew weak as he handed the
picture
to
E-obert with some faded
flowers which he
had pressed out and kept and said
:
^These flowers were
picked by her own
little hands over forty years ago."
He then broke down and wept
bitterly.
Robert was
deeply moved by the old man's great devotion to his
long-lost sweetheart and begged him to tell more of the
story.
The old man dried his eyes and went on—"Over 50
years ago when I was a young man, I lived near
St.
Joseph, Missouri.
I went to school at a country school-
house.
Katie Larson was a beautiful young girl.
We
grew up together.
I don't really know when I
fell in
love with her, but I know that in my school days I loved
her and always intended to marry her.
The years went
by.
I had never told Katie of my love.
She had grown
to be a woman and I kind of took
it for granted that
she knew and understood that I loved her and intended
to marry
her.
Time went by and we were often
to-
gether.
There was never any trouble or disagreements.

--- PAGE 217 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
207
I was anxious to succeed and decided that I should make
some money before I proposed to Katie.
Time drifted
swiftly by, I was not
as successful
as I hoped to
be,
and finally one day I received the saddest news of my
life—Katie had married.
I realized that she had prob-
ably waited and hoped for me to make known my inten-
tions but my
financial
affairs had held me
back.
I
knew
it was
all my fault.
I should have confided my
plans to her and asked her to have patience and wait.
From that day I was a changed man.
My heart was
broken and
if no hope had been left for me, I would
never have gone on, but from that day on, hoped and
prayed that I might one day have her, even if for only
a few years or weeks,
in my declining years.
Katie
moved away
after marrying and probably
it was the
hope for her love some day that spurred me to action.
I worked harder than ever.
Success crowned my efforts.
I studied medicine^ moved to Dallas, Texas, became a
very successful doctor.
There I met a woman whom I
thought I loved. We were married and lived seemingly
happy for a few years, but the spark of love for Katie
in my heart never died.
We had a little girl born and
I named her Katie, which proved later a very 'foolish
thing to do.
She was the pride of my life, my hope was
centered on her.
Finally I made the mistake that many
men make.
I told my wife of my great love for Katie.
After that time,
she
lost
faith
in me and we slowly
drifted apart.
Then came separation and divorce.
I
had
accumulated
considerable money and now
being
very unhapy, I decided to leave Dallas and go to "New
York and try the
speculative
markets.
Success
and
failure have followed
alternately,
like the
rising and

--- PAGE 218 of 432 ---

208
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
falling of the tides.
There has never been a day when
I have come to Wall
Street that I have not hoped
to
one day meet Katie
again.
That hope has kept me
alive.
I have often tried to find her, but the years have
brought changes.
She moved away to California and
I have never been able to find out whether she
is living
or dead.
I hope that you will never have to go thru
the years that I have gone thru without the love and
comfort that the woman you love can give.
Your faith
is supreme and that will carry you safely thru, and even
if you never find Marie, it is better to live for that ideal
because
it will make you a better man, as love always
brings out the best."
Robert was very much
interested in the old man's
story, but very sorry that
it had never ended as he had
hoped
it would with him and Marie.
Mr. Watson told
Robert that he thought he had wonderful ideas about
speculation, and that if he would only stick to them and
not be swept off his feet by success, that he would eventu-
ally reach the greatest
height.
He quoted
Kipling's
^Tf.''
If you can keep your head when all about you
Are losing theirs and blaming it on you
;
If you can trust yourself when
all men doubt you,
But make allowance for their doubting too:
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,
Or being lied about, don't deal in
lies,
Or being hated don't give way to hating,
And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise;
If you can dream—and not make dreams your master;
If you can think—and not make thoughts your aim.
If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster
And treat those two impostors just the same:

--- PAGE 219 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
209
If you can bear to hear the truth you've spoken
Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,
Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,
And stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools j
If you can make one heap of all your winnings
And risk
it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,
And lose, and start again at your beginnings
And never breathe a word about your
loss:
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
To serve your turn long after they are gone,
And so hold on when there is nothing in you
Except the Will which says to them:
"Hold on!"
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue.
Or walk with Kings—nor lose the common touch,
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you.
If all men count with you, but none too much:
If you can
fill the unforgiving minute
With sixty seconds' worth of distance run.
Yours is the Earth and everything that's in
it,
And—which is more—you'll be a Man, my son!
He told Robert the greatest test of a man would come
when he reached the stage of great prosperity.
That
almost any man could stand reverses but very few could
stand
prosperity.
Money
could buy
so many things
which were not necessary to a man's happiness and
at-
tracted so many people who would do him harm rather
than benefit him that most men started on the down
grade as a result of too much money and too great pros-
perity.
Robert agreed that this was
right.
Said that
with him money was only a means to an end and said
that he wanted
it
so he could help others and benefit
his country.
Mr. Watson told him that as soon as his
success was generally known and he was well established
in ISTew York many
selfish women would be attracted

--- PAGE 220 of 432 ---

210
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
to him and that
if he possessed the weak point which
had been the undoing of many men, he would be
lost.
That was being
influenced by
flattery from beautiful
women.
He
said,
^^Remember, my boy, they
are
at-
tracted to the money and not to the man, but few men
can keep their heads at a time when women and men
crowd around
to praise their
success.
I remember
a
poem that I used to read when I was a boy, part of
which runs something like this:
^They crowd around me, those stately dames and
belles,
And pay
to me
the
royal homage
that
all
great
success
compels
;
But where
is she, that sweetheart of my former years.
Who stood by me, when others could see nothing in me.'
You
will
find
it
so,
Robert.
Men
desert you when
money is gone, like pirates fleeing from a sinking ship.
I admonish you not to put your trust in money or men.
Continue
as you have,
trust God, have faith
in him,
stick to your first love, and happiness and success will be
your reward."
When
the
old man
had
finished
talking,
Robert
noticed that the eyes had become
still, his cheeks were
pale, his hand dropped limp at his side.
Robert rushed
to him and soon realized that the old man was very
ill.
He hurriedly summoned a doctor.
Soon after laying the
old gentleman on the couch and making him comfort-
able, the doctor arrived.
After hasty examination, he
told Robert that the end v/as near.
They decided
to
send for a minister and when he arrived, the old man
was clutching the picture
in his hand.
The minister
bent over him and asked him
if he realized that the
end w^as near and if he had made his peace with God,

--- PAGE 221 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
211
adding,
^^Will you
die
in the faith
of
a
Christian ?'*
The old man sprang up from the couch suddenly, as tho
new strength had been
instilled in his frail old body.
He raised his hand and showed the doctor the picture
and
said,
"Will that
faith bring me back Katie,
the
only woman I have every really loved?''
The doctor
knew that his strength was fast waning and got him to
lie down on the couch again.
The minister whispered
consoling words to him,
told him that "God
so loved
the world that he gave his only begotten son that whom-
soever
believeth on him
should
not
perish,
but have
everlasting life."
Again he asked, "Do you believe in
Jesus Christ ?
Will you accept the faith ?"
Again the
old man replied, "Will that faith bring back to me my
Katie?"
His
voice
w^as growing weaker,
the
doctor
knew that
it was a matter of but a few moments.
The
minister
again bent
over him and whispered
slowly,
"Will you accept Jesus Christ as your saviour and die
in the faith of a Christian?"
With a faltering weak
voice he answered, "Will that faith give me back Katie,
the greatest love of my life ?"
The doctor turned to the
minister and said, "Tie has gone to his reward."
"With
a love like that, such loyalty and
faith
to a long-lost
love must receive
its reward in heaven and a just God
will extend mercy to a soul like that," said the minister.
Robert was in tears.
He felt that he had not only lost
a friend, but a very dear friend, and that while the old
man's going had taken something from his life, yet the
example was one that would be of great comfort and
benefit to him.
He knew that he would live faithful to
Marie, and that he would
die,
as the
old man
died,
longing for Marie, no matter what happened.

--- PAGE 222 of 432 ---

212
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XVII
ROBERT turned to the Bible for consolation.
Read
every chapter of the Song of Solomon.
Was very
much impressed with Chapter 2:14:
O my dove, that art in the clefts of the rock, in the secret
places of the
stairs,
let me see thy countenance,
let me hear
thy voice, for sweet is thy voice and thy countenance is comely.
Robert longed to hear Marie's voice and prayed that she
might come forth from her
secret hiding
place.
He
read Chapter
8
: 6th and 7th verses
:
Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm,
for love
is strong as death;
jealousy as cruel
as the grave;
the coals thereof are coals of fire which have a most vehement
flame.
Many
waters
cannot quench
love,
neither
can
the
floods
drown
it;
if a man would give
all the substance of his house
for
love,
he would
utterly
be condemned.
Robert realized that nothing could quench his love and
that Marie v^as the only remedy for his aching heart.
Turning to Daniel 9: 21, he read:
Yea while I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel
whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning being caused
to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening obla-
tion.
Robert knew that this indicated that people did fly in
the older days, and that we were now only repeating past
cycles.
He read Chapter 12
: 4th verse:
Let
thou,
Daniel, shut up the words, and
seal the book

--- PAGE 223 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
218
even
to
the
time
of
the
end; many
shall run
to and
fro,
and knowledge shall be increased.
Robert thought that we were now nearing the time of
the end because man was running to and fro in
fast
automobiles and traveling swiftly thru the air in
air-
planes
; that new discoveries were being made and that
loLOwledge was
increasing.
He must hasten
his new
invention.
He read the 12th verse:
Blesseth
is
he
that
waiteth,
and cometh
to
the
thousand
three hundred and five and thirty days.
Kobert believed that he understood the cycle and knew
the number of years, months and days referred to in
Daniel's prophecies.
Calculated that from March, 1931,
until the end of June, 1932, would be troublesome times
for the United States.
Depression, war and panic would
hang over the destinies of his country.
Robert had gone
deeply into the Bible study in order to learn more about
the
great
science
of
Astrology.
From
the
Bible he
interpreted that he belonged to the tribe of Issachar, the
fifth son of Jacob and that this name indicated price,
reward, recompense.
He understood from this that he
would have to pay the price, but he would receive the
reward for his faithfulness and devotion to Marie.
Robert turned to Genesis, Chapter 30, 17th and 18th
verses
:
And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived and bore
Jacob,
the
fifth
son, and Leah
said God hath
given me my
hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband; and she
called his name Issachar.
He read Genesis 49 :14 and 15, where Jacob blessed his
12 sons:

--- PAGE 224 of 432 ---

214
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Issachar is a strong ass, couching down between two burdens
and he saw that the rest was good and the land,
that
it was
pleasant;
and bowed
his
shoulders
to
bear,
and
became
a
servant unto tribute.
Robert knew
that
this was the description
of
a man
bom in June under the sign Gemini and that he was
born to bear a burden, that he must serve his people
and be a comfort and help to carry their burdens.
That
the sign under which he was born was a double-bodied
sign, known as the sign of the twins, that things would
repeat
in his
life,
that he would have many ups and
downs, but that he would reach his reward thru science.
He was anxious to learn of Marie's characteristics from
the Bible and thru Astrology and found that she was
born under the sign Libra, the sign of the balance, ruled
by the Goddess
of Love,
Venus, which endowed her
with her great beauty. Reading Genesis 29
: 32, he found
that Marie belonged to the tribe of Reuben, "And Leah
conceived and bare a son and she called his name Reu-
ben; for she said ^Surely the Lord hath looked upon
my affliction ; now therefore my husband will love me.' "
The symbol and meaning of this name is "one who sees
the
sun,''
the
vision
of the
sun, and
indicates
great
intuition, keen perception and power of foresight.
Gene-
sis 49: 3-4:
Reuben thou art my first born, my might and the beginning
of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency
of power; unstable as water, thou shalt not excel.
Robert understood that this referred to Marie's charac-
ter and disposition.
She was unstable, changeable and
moody,
but he
felt
that her
love was
fixed and
that

--- PAGE 225 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
215
eventually she would return to him.
He read
all the
books he could get on Astrology and began to understand
why things had happened as they had.
It made him a
better philosopher and helped him to bear his sorrows
with greater patience.
Robert continued reading Isaiah 45 :13
:
I
have
raised him up
in
righteousness, and
I
will
direct
all his ways:
he shall build my city and he
shall
let go my
captives, not for price, nor reward, saith the Lord of hosts.
This probably meant that the time would come when the
Lord would direct man and that when wars came and
prisoners were made captives, they would be set free with-
out price or reward.
It was Robert's idea that this was
the way
it should be when love ruled the world.
Robert read Hebrews 11:3 and 5
:
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed
by the word of God, so that the things which are seen were
not made of things which
do
appear.
By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death;
and was not found, because God had translated him:
for be-
fore his translation he had this testimony that he had pleased
God.
Robert believed that Enoch went away in an airplane
and knew that faith was the great sustaining force, and
that without faith it was impossible to please God, for
he read where it says, ^Tor he that cometh to God must
believe that he
is, and that he
is a rewarder of them
that diligently seek him."
Robert knew that he had
faith and
that
that
faith would
sustain him during
the time of trials and troubles.
In Romans 12:2:
And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by

--- PAGE 226 of 432 ---

216
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what
is that
good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
Robert knew and understood how to renew his mind and
body because he knew what Jesus meant when he said
^^Destroy this temple and in three days I will build
it
up again."
He knew that
it referred to the temple of
the human body.
Robert
read
the
9th
to
13th
verses
of
the same
Chapter
:
Let
love be
without
dissimulation.
Abhor
that which
is
evil; cleave to that which
is good.
Be kindly affectioned one
to another with brotherly
love,
in honor preferring one an-
other; not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the
Lord,
rejoicing
in
hope,
patient
in
tribulation;
continuing
instant in prayer.
Robert intended to be patient in tribulations and was
going to be kind and show brotherly love ; he would have
faith, hope and pray for the day when he would again
have Marie.
Love was the
fulfilling of the law and
reward was promised for obedience to that law.
The
more he read the Bible the more he was convinced of its
great value and that
all of the knowledge and instruc-
tion that man needed for any purpose or at any time,
was to be found in that good old book.
Robert decided
that he would not only pray without ceasing, but would
spend some of the money that he had made, to try to
find Marie, as no word had ever been received of her up
to this time.
He employed a detective agency to make a
search all over the United States.
Mr. Kennelworth
left New York and returned
to
Texarkana in the latter part of June, 1927.
He bought
cotton heavily on Robert's advice that the Government

--- PAGE 227 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
217
report would be very
bullish and would
have
a
big
advance
during
July
according
to
Robert's
forecast
earlier in the year.
The Government Report on July
9th showed a big decrease in acreage and prices started
to advance again.
Robert wrote and telegraphed Mr.
Kennelworth
that
October
cotton
would
advance
to
around 18.50 to 18.75 before there was any important
reaction.
On July 16th October cotton crossed 18.50
and Mr. Kennelworth wired Robert as follows
:
July 16, 1927
Robert Gordon
69 Wall Street
New York City
CONGRATULATIONS YOUR FORECASTS ARE WONDERFUL HAVE OVER
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS PROFIT IN COTTON AS SOON
AS
YOU
GET TIME WORK UP YOUR
CYCLE
ON
PRESIDENTIAI^
ELECTIONS AND WRITE ME WHAT THE OUTLOOK IS FOR 1928
J. H. Kennelworth
To which Robert replied:
July 16, 1927.
My DEAR Mr. Kennelworth :
Your telegram
just
received.
Am
very happy
that you
have played
the
cotton market
heavily and
are making big
profits.
I,
too, have made over a hundred thousand
dollars.
Will get busy in a few days and work out the cycles for
1928 and let you know what the outlook is as to who will be
elected President.
Walter and I are getting along nicely.
I am making good
progress on my plans for the airship.
Have employed a de-
tective agency to search all over the United States for Marie.
I am patiently awaiting news of her.
Believe she is still alive.
Thanks for your good wishes.
With kindest regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
Robert Gordon.

--- PAGE 228 of 432 ---

218
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XVIII
A FTER making his calculations on the Presidential
-Zjl
election in 1928, Robert sent the following Fore-
cast to Mr. Kennelworth
:
July
20,
1927.
1928 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
In order to determine the conditions that will prevail during
1928 and who
will be
elected, we must
look up
past
cycles.
I refer you
to
Ecclesiastes
3
: 15—^'That which hath been
is
now and that which
is to be hath already been, and God re-
quireth that which
is past."
We know that we are repeating past cycles as referred to in
Ezekiel's
Prophecy—Chapter
20
: 46—"Son
of man
set
thy
face toward the south, and drop thy word toward the south,
and prophesy against the
forest of the south
field, and say
to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the Lord, Thus
saith the Lord God, Behold, I will kindle a
fire in thee and
it
shall devour every green tree
in thee and every dry tree,
the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and
all faces from
the south to the north shall be burned therein."
The troubles in Nicaragua, the destructive floods and storms
which have visited Florida, and the destruction by the floods
along the
Mississippi during the past Spring
all show that
troubles are starting in the south.
We are in a cycle which
will repeat and cause wars which will
start from the south
and southwest, probably Mexico.
All of these events will have
a great bearing on the Presidential election in 1928, because
war will be in the air and the people will be very much upset.

--- PAGE 229 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
219
As referred to in Exodus 32
: 17—"And when Joshua heard
the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses,
There is a noise of war in the camp."
There will be political
wars and revolutionary changes in the United States in 1928.
people will want to choose new leaders.
Read Judges 5
: 8—
"They chose new gods; then was war within the gates:
was
there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?"
The people will need to choose an able leader to prepare for
the great war in the
air.
I have made a study of President Coolidge's date of birth,
name and numbers.
He is the strongest man that the Republi-
cans have, but he has not wanted
to
accept
the nomination
and
will probably not
if he can get out of
it.
He has the
best chance of any Republican for being elected.
Along about
March
or
April,
1928,
some
important
event
will
happen
which
is
likely to cause President Coolidge
to refuse
to
ac-
cept the nomination.
When the convention meets in June or
July there will be long delays, dissatisfaction and fights among
the
old Republican leaders
as
to whom
they
will
nominate.
From the cycle that we are repeating, there
is a strong indi-
cation that President Coolidge will not be renominated.
He
will do something which
will cause
large
financial
interests
and moneyed men to withdraw their support from him.
Since God requires that which
is past, then past cycles and
events in the history of the United
States must repeat.
We
look up
the
names
and
dates
of
birth
to
determine when
certain names or initial letters should repeat.
The letter "C"
is one which repeats in events of the United States as shown
by the election of Grover Cleveland the second time in 1892.
President Calvin Coolidge, with the "C" strong in both names,
succeeded President Harding, August 2, 1923, and was elected
in 1924.
This was really a repetition of the
letter "C" the
same as Cleveland's second
election, and in view of the fact
that President
Coolidge has served about
6 years,
the
letter
"C"
is not due to repeat
its vibration in 1928, but might re-
peat in 1932 when President Coolidge could possibly be elected
again following the war and troublesome times.

--- PAGE 230 of 432 ---

220
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
The most favorable letters for the Republican Party which
could repeat in 1928 are B, J, F, and L.
In view of the cycle
which indicates war from 1928 to 1932, there is a strong indi-
cation
that the
letter "L"
will
repeat
as
it
did during the
Civil War when Lincoln was President.
This might mean the
nomination of Borah, Butler, Johnson or Lowden.
I haven't
the dates of birth of any of these men, therefore, am unable
to say before the nominations take place and we know whom
their opponents will be, whether any of them would be elected
or not.
In regard to the Democratic nomination, the cycle indicates
a strong
possibility of victory for
the Democrats or a new
party.
Governor Alfred Smith
is not likely to be nominated
and
if nominated would not be
elected.
The
letter "S" has
never appeared in the surname of any president of the United
States, and as we are only due to repeat past events, he has a
very slim chance of being elected.
The letters F, M and R are due to repeat for the Democrats.
This might mean Ford, McAdoo or Reed.
According to
the
date of birth, cycle and numbers, McAdoo would have a much
better
chance
of getting the nomination than
Smith.
Reed
looks stronger than either of them.
Governor Smith will con-
tinue popular and
the
possibilities of him being nominated
will look promising
until about May,
1928, when there
will
be a sudden change of public opinion against him.
Support
will be withdrawn and some of the strong Democratic leaders
will turn to other possible candidates.
Smith's name will no
doubt come before the convention, but I see no chance of him
being nominated.
There is a strong indication that the man who will be nomi-
nated will be a "dark horse," a man probably bom in May or
June.
Revolutionary changes are indicated.
The question of
the 18th Amendment is likely to split both of the old
parties.
A farm and labor party
or some
other
political party may
spring up and
defeat both of the
old
parties.
The
public
will be very much divided and sentiment will be badly mixed
in
the summer and
fall of 1928.

--- PAGE 231 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
221
With the present data in hand and the events that are to
follow the next Presidential
election, my judgment
is that a
Republican
will
not
be
elected.
The
President who
takes
office in March, 1929, will
start under very unfavorable con-
ditions similar to those which faced President Wilson
at the
time he entered his second term and also conditions will repeat
similar to
those
that followed
the
election of Abraham Lin-
coln
in
1861.
There
will be trouble with foreign
countries
over immigration laws.
Tariff will be a sore spot and cause
disagreements with foreign countries.
I will have my calculations made up for the stock and com-
modity markets
for 1928 and 1929 soon and when they are
completed will send a copy of them.
There will be some big
opportunities for long pull trading in stocks and conmiodities
during 1928.
I want you to be in on the deals with me and
hope I can help you make a million
dollars.
Robert Gordon.

--- PAGE 232 of 432 ---

222
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XIX
DECEMBER, 1927, stocks had been declining for
several weeks.
This month stocks declined rap-
idly and Robert was heavily
short.
Wheat and corn
advanced.
Robert had been on the right side for several
months.
Just before Christmas he figured that he would
cover his short
stocks and wait for a rally which he
expected would come in January or Eebruary.
He now
had
profits which gave him working
capital
of
over
&Ye
hundred
thousand
dollars,
allowing
for
all
the
money that he had spent ; so he decided to put more time
in working on his invention, as he was now in position
to spend money enough to develop his first airplane.
He
kept in touch every few days with the detective agency,
but no word had been received from Marie. Her parents
had about given up hope that Marie was alive.
Robert
wrote them a very encouraging letter because he wanted
to cheer them up at Christmas time.
Told them that he
believed Marie was alive and that he had faith in God
and wanted them to have faith and continue to pray for
Marie's return.
Informed them of his great financial
success and told them that he had continued
to keep
Marie's
account
separate
and had
traded
very
con-
servatively for her and that she now had over $40,000
which he intended to try to increase and have as a great
surprise for her.
Robert sent beautiful Christmas gifts
to them in memory of Marie.

--- PAGE 233 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
223
A few days before Christmas there was a big decline
in the stock market.
All kinds of unfavorable rumors
were afloat.
Business conditions were bad.
War clouds
were gathering thick in Europe.
!I^ewspapers talked of
the uncertainties in the new year due
to the coming
presidential
election.
The public had
lost
confidence
and were selling stocks.
Robert decided that this was
the time to cash in so he covered a big line of Shorts in
Major Motors,
Central
Steel and
others.
This was a
great Christmas
for him,
financially.
From
his
be-
ginning with 200 bales of cotton in January, 1927, with
a capital of $1,000.00 and $10,000.00 which Mr. Ken-
nelworth gave him later, thru his successful pyramiding
he had made over half a million dollars.
He was over-
joyed with his success because
it would help him now
to
complete
his
airplane and
other
inventions.
His
mind turned back
to
Christmas,
1926, when he had
bought Marie a beautiful ring with the money he had
saved.
At
that time he
little realized
that
so much
could happen in one short year.
He thought of all he
could do for Marie this year if he only knew where she
was.
Decided that he would buy some beautiful pres-
ents for her anyway and keep them until she returned to
show her that he was thinking of her on Christmas.
He
bought a beautiful diamond ring and a bracelet set with
sapphires and diamonds.
When the jeweler delivered
them Robert looked them over and thought of all Marie's
beauty and purity.
His faith in her was still supreme.
He was very sad and wept bitterly because he felt more
keenly than ever the need for her.
He wanted her to be
with him to share his financial success.

--- PAGE 234 of 432 ---

224
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
His
heart
turned
to
his
next
dearest
friend—his
mother.
He decided
to
try
to make
it the
happiest
Christmas of her life and hought her every kind of a
present
that he thought would make
her happy and
comfortable and sent her a check for $5,000.00 to do with
just
as
she
pleased
and
buy
anything
she
wanted.
Begged her to come to J^ew York to see him soon after
the new year, as he wanted her to see the sights of the
city, and thought the trip would be good for her health.
In the early part of 1928 Robert calculated that war
was inevitable between England and Russia.
He
fig-
ured that the war would start not later than the sum-
mer and that many nations would be involved and that
later an attack on the United States would come.
His
first airplane was now completed,—a small one accord-
ing to the plan laid down by Ezekiel in the Bible.
The
plane had four wings and could fly on either one of its
four sides.
It had a new motor with 12 cylinders and
could be operated either with gas,
electricity or com-
pressed air.
He had constructed a wheel within a wheel
so that he could lower his plane and land anywhere he
chose and could
rise
straight up.
One motor had
a
propeller in the center of the plane to lift
it up while
the other motor started
its
direct motion.
He could
drive his plane backwards or forwards.
It was a great
success and the boy wizard
of Wall
Street was now
hailed
as a new Lindbergh of the
air.
There was an
extra motor built with a collapsible propeller so that he
could shift it from the center of the airplane to the tail,
enabling
it
to go backward
or forward
as he
willed.
The wings were so arranged that they could either re-

--- PAGE 235 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
226
main
stationary or be
set
in motion up or down by
motor.
This was a new and valuable feature in the con-
struction of airplanes.
Robert's next invention was to build a silent motor,
or a muffler, which would prevent any sound.
He knew
that this would be very useful in war.
After he had
completed this invention, tested
it and proved
it a suc-
cess, he offered it to the United States Government, but
after the army officers, who knew very little about this
new invention had looked it over, they refused
it.
Rob-
ert then
sailed away in his new plane which he had
named ^The St. Marie."
He visited England, France,
Germany and in the Spring of 1928 made the longest
successful flight to Japan^ where he was received with
great honor.
Japan was very much interested in his
new plane and in his muffler.
The Japanese Govern-
ment quickly closed a deal and bought his invention for
a large sum of money.
Robert felt that probably one
day this invention would be used against his own coun-
try in time of war, but knew that the United
States
would have to learn a lesson—^that too often in the past
American inventions had been sold to foreign countries
because his own Government would not buy them.
While in Japan Robert was entertained and
intro-
duced to many beautiful titled ladies and prominent men,
but he remained loyal to Marie for his great success had
not turned his head.
He was still searching for Marie,
always hoping to find her.
He returned to !N^ew York
in the Summer of 1928 and was now reputed as being
worth more than a million
dollars,
after making more
successful deals in stocks, cotton and wheat.
He had

--- PAGE 236 of 432 ---

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
followed the advice of old Henry Watson and had never
scattered over two or three markets
at the same time.
When he had a deal on in cotton or wheat, he stuck to
that until he closed the transaction.
When he went into
a
stock
campaign
he
stayed
out
of
the
commodity
markets.
He was meeting with success in every direc-
tion, but his longing for Marie continued and the vision
of her beautiful face continued to haunt him.
In May,
1928, Walter received
a radiogram from
Robert saying that he was leaving Japan the latter part
of the month and was going to
sail "The
St. Marie"
back to New York.
Walter and Miss Edna Quinton,
the
secretary, had followed
the newspaper
reports
of
the great reception tendered Robert by the officials of the
Japanese Government and the report of the large amount
of money they had paid
for
his
noiseless
patent
for
air planes.
Walter w^as going to graduate in June so
he wrote his father and informed him that Robert was
returning to New York soon with great honors and he
thought it appropriate to have a big celebration for him
when he
arrived.
As his father was coming to New
York anyway for the graduation exercises, he suggested
that he be there to greet Robert on his triumphant re-
turn.
Mr. Kennelworth, who was a member of the Chamber
of Commerce of Texarkana and one of the leading citi-
zens, called a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce, in-
formed them of the phenomenal success of Robert Gordon
who had left Texarkana one year previous an unknown
boy and who was now the most talked of young man
in the world.
He had made more than a million dollars
i

--- PAGE 237 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
227
following his own discovery of how to use the laws laid
down in the Bible for foretelling the future course of
cotton, grain and stocks; had built the most marvelous
airplane of the age ; invented a muffler to make an air-
plane
noiseless; had
driven
his own plane, "The
St.
Marie" to Japan where he had been received with great
honors and the Japanese Government had bought his
invention
for making
airplanes
silent.
Mr.
Kennel-
worth proposed that the leading citizens of Texarkana
go to 'New York to honor their favorite son on his re-
turn.
When he had finished talking there was lasting
applause
and
hurrahs
for
Robert
Gordon.
Colonel
Stanton was in the audience.
He arose and said that
he heartily
endorsed
the
proposal and would
donate
$10,000.00 to the expense fund, that they should go to
New York in a special train to greet the greatest young
man of the age who was born on a farm near Texarkana.
Everyone was in favor of
it and the wealthy men
all
followed Mr. Stanton in offering large sums of money
in order to make the reception a success.
When the
meeting was over, J. H. Kennelworth drove out to the
country home of Amelia Gordon, Robert's mother.
Told
her of her boy's success and the plans to meet him in
New York and give him a great reception, inviting her
to go on the
special train
as a guest
of honor.
She
thankfully accepted.
On June 9th Robert
Gordon's 22nd birthday,
the
great reception took place.
The special train bearing
the leading citizens of Texarkana arrived, Robert had
landed at the new airport on Governor's Island without
iany mishap to his plane.
"The
St. Marie" had per-

--- PAGE 238 of 432 ---

228
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
formed
perfectly, making the trip from Japan
at an
average speed of over 300 miles per hour.
Robert re-
ceived the surprise of his life when he saw his mother
and rushed to her, and after greeting her affectionately
turned to shake hands with Mr. Kennelworth and Wal-
ter and seeing Mr. and Mrs. Stanton there was
over-
joyed and thought
sure
that Marie had been found.
He rushed to greet her parents and his first words were,
*'Where
is Marie?"
With
tears
in
their
eyes,
they
informed him
that not
a word had been received
in
regard to her.
They proceeded immediately to the Com-
modore Hotel where the reception committee and the
entire delegation from Texarkana and arranged for a
dinner and celebration.
Robert was happy to see all the
prominent business men from Texarkana there to greet
him.
Mr. Kennelworth made the address.
Told Rob-
ert how proud Texarkana was of him
; said that this was
the age of the young man and that Robert had demon-
strated that he was the greatest young man of his day.
Robert was overwhelmed
at
this great
reception.
He
thanked
his
friends;
thanked Mr.
Kennelworth,
per-
sonally, and above all for bringing his dear old mother
to see him ; said
it was the happiest moment of his life
and that his one regret was that Marie was not there,
but that he still had hope of finding her.
When the re-
ception was over and Robert had a few moments alone
with his dear old mother,
she
said, ^'My son, do you
remember the dream you had when you were a little boy,
which you told me about ?
That you were riding a large
bird with white wings
across the ocean and how
the
foreign countries received you with great honor.
My

--- PAGE 239 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
229
boy, wlien you landed today I thought about that dream
and how
it had been fulfilled.
I hope that
all of your
other dreams and ambitions will be realized and that
you will be rewarded with Marie's
love, because you
have been faithful and loyal to her.''
Robert said, ^^Mother, I do remember the dream quite
well, and when I was in Japan and they gave me such
great receptions and honored me, I thought of the dream
and I thought of you and how you had taught me how to
read the Bible and I thought of Marie and how I loved
her and felt that I would gladly give
all of the honors
just to be with you and Marie alone because your love
and Marie's love mean more to me than everything else
that the world can give."
Walter Kennelworth was graduated from Columbia
College in June and prepared to work with Robert in
the
office.
Edna Quinton had proved to be a faithful
employee and a valuable aid to Robert.
She had taken
care of his business and looked after his financial trans-
actions while he was away.
Robert soon went to work
on a new invention, and perfected a machine to read
the minds of people a short distance away and
also a
machine which he named the ^Tel-talk."
This machine
was made on the principle of the radio
; by raising and
lowering
it
at
certain
angles
it would
record
all
the
conferences in the
different buildings in Wall
Street.
Robert
also used
this machine
to
get
reports on
all
the conferences of the big manipulators.
He knew that
manipulators in Wall Street suspected that in some way
he understood their plans as he was making money too
fast and they were conspiring to find a way to get him

--- PAGE 240 of 432 ---

230
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
wrong on the market and breai him.
They changed
their plans often but found that each time Robert was
on the right side of the market.
Even his friend Wal-
ter knew nothing about Robert's latest invention.
He
kept it in a secret room, and no one had ever seen it but
himself.
It was
a very
delicate
little machine with
indicators like a compass, delicately balanced and oper-
ated by electricity.
His success was causing great ex-
citement and schemers wanted to get his secret.
They
knew that Edna Quinton had been in his office ever since
he was in l^ew York.
She was invited to a dinner at the
Biltmore where she was offered a large sum of money
if she would reveal the secrets of how Robert Gordon
so successfully operated in the market.
She told them
frankly
that she knew nothing about how he
did
it,
but if she did know, no amount of money would induce
her to turn traitor to her employer.
Edna made up
her mind that when she reached the office the following
morning, she would tell Mr. Gordon just what had hap-
pened.
Upon reaching the
o;ffice unusually early she
found Mr. Gordon there.
He seemed unusually happy
and she thought that he must have news of Marie.
Be-
fore she had time to
tell him what had happened the
night before, he called her into his secret office, the room
that she had never seen before.
There she saw all kinds
of strange instruments which she knew must be some of
his new inventions.
He took her to a little machine in
the corner of the room and showed her some peculiar
lines that the machine had recorded on the paper the
night before.
He told her that
his machine received
the impressions
of people's minds and recorded
their

--- PAGE 241 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
231
thoughts, especially when they were greatly excited or
interested
in any matter.
He read
to her from the
record on the machine in substance exactly what had
been said to her the night before.
Then he turned to
the Bible and showed her where
it
said "Everything
that is concealed will be revealed, and everything that is
covered
will be uncovered."
Edna was more excited
than she had ever been in her life.
She knew that the
machine had
revealed the
truth.
Then
said
to Mr.
Gordon that she had intended to tell him that morning
just what had happened and hoped that he would believe
that she was loyal to him and had refused to accept a
bribe.
He then showed her another record on the ma-
chine
like
a phonograph
record which would
record
people's thoughts and told her that it indicated just what
she had been thinking about.
The machine had read
her mind and recorded her thoughts.
He assured her
that he did believe her and trust her.
Edna was moved
to tears at this great confidence.
She knew that never
before had she been permitted to
see this
secret room
and while she knew of Robert's great love for Marie, she
felt that this confidence he had placed in her was more
than a matter of business confidence and that he had
some love for her.
She had always admired him but
had never thought of loving him.
ISTow she knew that
she did love him.
A few days later Edna had a talk with Walter, be-
cause she had known him before Robert came to InTcw
York and
it was thru his influence she had secured the
position.
She told him what had happened and con-
fided in him her love for Robert.
He was happy to

--- PAGE 242 of 432 ---

232
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
know this and hoped that Robert would fall in love with
her as he believed
it would be best for him.
Walter
said, "I am not an expert judge of how emotions work
in men and women, but the way for you to find out how
Robert feels toward you
is to watch his actions, make
notes of how often he speaks of Marie, of the letters he
writes trying to find her.
Continue to be as nice and
kind toward him
as you have always been.
If in
a
few months his interest in the search for Marie wanes,
and he ceases to talk about her, it will be a sure sign that
his mind and heart
is turning toward you."
Soon
after
Walter
graduated,
Robert
called
Miss
Quinton into his secret office one morning and told her
he was going to form a new firm under the name of
"Gordon, Kennelworth &; Quinton" and that Edna was
to have an interest in the firm, as reward for her faith-
ful service.
She was to help with the work on the secret
discoveries.
Edna was overjoyed at this and her emo-
tions got the best of her judgment.
She flung her arms
around Robertas neck, kissed him, told him he was the
most wonderful man in the world and that she loved
him. He drew himself quickly away from her, sat down
in a chair and stared out the window for several min-
utes
before he
spoke.
Then he turned toward Miss
Quinton, faced her with a firm but kind face, told her
that she had made a mistake in his actions, that he was
rewarding her for faithfulness and that there was no
sentiment in the matter, that he did not love her, that
he was loyal to his long-lost Marie and would never love
anyone
else.
Edna hardly knew what
to
say.
She
begged
his
forgiveness
and
tendered her
resignation.

--- PAGE 243 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
233
He told her tliat lie would refuse to accept it
; that they
would go right on and work together just the same as in
the past,
if she felt that she could and wanted to.
She
assured him that she wanted to remain as long as he
wanted
her, and that in the future she would always
control her emotions.
Walter Kennelworth had completed a special course
in chemistry at college and was now prepared for work
in the new firm.
His father had been following Robert
in the market during the past year and had made a large
amount of money.
He presented Walter with $100,-
000.00, part of the profits which he had made out of
the market, with the understanding that the money was
to be used in helping to further Robert's inventions.
In the Fall of 1928, Robert and Walter completed
an invention of Sun-mirrors, whereby they were able to
collect the rays from the sun and produce heat power-
ful enough to melt down skyscrapers in a few minutes.
With these mirrors and the aid of electricity, they dis-
covered a powerful light ray.
Robert knew that this was
going to be of great value in the coming war.
They
named
this machine
^'The Demon
of Death."
Miss
Quinton had been very much interested in this machine
during the
course
of
construction,
and
she named
it
^^Spit-Fire" because
it could send forth such powerful
sparks
of
fire,
destroying
instantly any metal that
it
touched.
They held a conference and agreed that this
new discovery must be kept secret and should never be
used except in the defense of the United States in time
of war and only then if our country was in dire peril
and unable to cope with the enemy.
There was one

--- PAGE 244 of 432 ---

234
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
secret
connected
with
tlie machine
that
only Robert
knew. They intended to start to build a giant airship
in a short time equipped with "The Demon of Death."
They figured
it would send a powerful death ray 3000
to
5000
miles
through
space,
destroying
everything
\vithin a radius of 700 miles.
Work was started on the
new machine with
all
secrecy.
It had
already been
christened "Marie the Angel of Mercy."
Robert and Walter were making money rapidly in the
cotton market.
The war
clouds were gathering and
Europe was buying cotton.
It had had a big advance
and they were playing the fast moves up and down,
both on the buying and selling sides.
There is an old
saying that intimacy breeds contempt, but
it did not
prove so with Walter Kennelworth and Edna Quinton.
One beautiful morning in early September, 1928, Rob-
ert Gordon stepped into the laboratory and found Edna
in the arms of Walter.
He made a hasty exit, but Wal-
ter and Edna knew that they had been caught.
Robert
was very happy at this discovery because he knew that
it was just the thing Walter needed
to stimulate his
ambitions and
give him something to work
for.
He
realized what a wonderful woman Miss Quinton was,
and that
she,
too, needed inspiration that
love alone
could give.
That evening he invited Walter to dinner
with him and when they were alone said, "Well, Walter,
the love bug has got you at last."
Walter was bashful
at first and didn't want to talk much about
it ; then he
admitted that
it had come on very suddenly when he
and Edna had realized that they were both in love with
each other.
Robert told him that it was inevitable and

--- PAGE 245 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
235
that now was the time it should start and that
it would
be better for both of them.
They were business part-
ners and it would make them more happy and success-
ful in their work.
Walter asked him
if he
still had
hopes of finding Marie.
Robert told him that he did
that he would never give up the search.
Everything moved along smoothly after this.
Walter
and Edna were happy in their work and the Fall of 1928
rewarded them with a new and wonderful
discovery.
They had been able to perfect a machine which would
reflect light in such a way as to make an airplane in-
visible and this, together with Robert's noiseless inven-
tion, solved the problem.
He knew now that in time of
war, the plane could be used to sneak upon the enemy
and that they would be unable to see or hear
it.
After
holding a conference, they decided that this invention,
as well as "The Demon of Death'' should not be patented
or offered for sale to any Government, that they would
test
it out and keep
it a secret.
Here Robert's great
generosity showed
itself again when he
decided
that
this invention should be used in time of greatest need for
the benefit of the United States.
Walter said, "Robert,
love indeed does make a great man, makes him unselfish,
causes him to think of his country, of his mother, his
sweetheart
and
everything
else
before
himself.
]^o
wonder you are making a success and always will, be-
cause you are doing right."
The completion of the great machine, "The Demon
of Death," which Robert had worked on untiringly day
and night, was a great triumph for him, but his wonder-
ful energy had been exhausted.
Walter had
noticed

--- PAGE 246 of 432 ---

236
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
before the macliine was completed that Robert looked
tired and worn.
His mind lacked its old-time quickness
and he feared for his health.
Robert began to reach the
office late and ceased to take an interest in his work.
He was moody and
despondent.
Thanksgiving Day,
Walter and Edna arranged a big dinner and
invited
Robert. He appeared very much worn and ate very little
dinner.
Both Walter and Edna noticed that he was
less talkative than ever before.
About an hour after
dinner was over Robert fell in a faint.
A doctor was
called immediately and after making a careful examina-
tion pronounced
it a case of nervous breakdown.
Said
there must be something preying on his mind or that
he had been under a long strain.
Walter explained the
disappearance of Marie and how Robert had worried
over the love
affair; his long, strenuous campaigns in
the stock and commodity markets and his work upon
his inventions
; that up to a few months previous Robert
had been able to work almost day and night without
showing any fatigue, but that in recent weeks he had
noticed a great change in him.
After the doctor had
heard the
story
of the love
affair and Marie's
disap-
pearance, he was sure that a long and needed rest was
necessary to restore Robert to his normal health.
He
ordered him
to remain
absolutely
quiet and
not
at-
tempt to look after any of the details of his business.
A few days later Walter persuaded Robert to go to At-
lantic City, which he did^ and after remaining there and
resting a couple of weeks, he returned apparently well
and
showed
his
old-time
strength
and
vigor.
Was
anxious to get back to work and look after his specula-
tive deals in the market.

--- PAGE 247 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
227
CHAPTER XX
AS the end of 1928 neared, war was already raging
jLjl.
in Europe.
England and
Russia had
already
gone to war
as Robert had predicted.
Complications
were developing quick and
fast and war clouds were
gathering.
Robert knew that
it was only a question of
a short time when the United States with all of its gold
supply, would be attacked and there would be a great
battle in the air.
Great progress had been made in avia-
tion.
Airplanes were carrying mail at the rate of 300
miles per hour.
Passenger lines were now starting all
over the United States.
"Marie the Angel of Mercy,"
Robert's
great
ship, was rapidly nearing
completion.
The new
12-cyUnder motor had been
tested and the
engineers had estimated that they would attain a speed
of 1000 miles per hour.
Robert was
elated over the
success and knew that he would now be prepared
to
help his country in time of its greatest need.
He had
been working early and late and the interest in his work
had kept his mind
oif Marie.
Yet not a day passed
but what he made some inquiries or had his detectives
chase some clew which he hoped would lead to the dis-
covery of Marie, but all efforts were in vain.
No news
had ever been heard of her.
With the great progress in radio messages thru the
air, and radiograms, Robert knew that in time of war,

--- PAGE 248 of 432 ---

238
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
secret communications would be neccessary.
Spies could
steal codes, and messages sent over the radio could be
interpreted ; therefore, one of the great needs for the war
in the air would be a way to communicate without de-
tection.
He finally succeeded
in completing what he
called "The Pocket Radio."
It was no larger than a
watch and worked on the same principle of his machine
for recording the thoughts of people,
only the instru-
ment had to be used by two people who understood how
to work
it, because the positive radio was
carried in
one man's pocket and the negative in the other and by
pressing the stem, it could be changed from positive into
negative.
JSTo sound was transmitted thru the air.
The
machine could be operated by certain motions of the
fingers on a little push button which recorded symbols
on the
other machine
that would reveal the message
sent.
The Pocket Radio made
it
possible to convey
any message without any
possibility of
detection
be-
cause only the person sending the message and the one
receiving
it could understand or know anything about
it.
This was better than wireless or any other radio
discovery up to this time.
Robert tested the machine
out by leaving one instrument in Walter's pocket, he
himself going to Chicago and conveying messages which
Walter was able to get without any trouble.
He could
either speak into this
little Pocket Radio and convey
the sound without anyone else being able to take it from
the air, or use it to convey thoughts or emotions.
The
test proved perfect and Robert knew that he had another
great discovery which would be of great value to his
Government in time of war.
He decided to keep this a

--- PAGE 249 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
239
secret and have
it ready to aid the United States at a
time when they would need it most.
Robert figured that there would be a big bull cam-
paign in cotton during 1929 so he had started buying
early in the year, expecting a big advance later.
He
had
also forecast the rapid advance of certain
classes
of stocks.
During 1928 he had closed a successful bear
campaign in Major Motors and was
still holding his
Right Aeroplane stock, which had continued to advance,
and he figured that it would have a big rise during 1929.
His fortune was piling up rapidly, despite all the money
he was spending on his new inventions.
The new ship
•^Marie, the Angel of Mercy/' was now about perfected,
but Robert
intended
that
this should never be made
known to the public until he had
it in perfect working
order and
it was a success beyond doubt.
After preparing his campaign
for the market and
buying stocks and cotton for the big advance, Walter
noticed a great change in Robert.
His health began to
fail again, and now that he had achieved great success
and
completed
such
wonderful
inventions,
without
Marie to comfort him he would probably break down in
health and give up.
Robert had ceased to talk much
about Marie.
His interest in the future was waning.
Walter and Edna, who were
still
as much in love as
ever, often discussed Robert's physical condition.
They
decided to encourage him to go away for a long-needed
rest.
Walter had a talk with Robert in the middle of
January,
1929, but Robert didn't show much interest
or any desire to travel. A short time after this, Robert
appeared at the office one morning looking more haggard

--- PAGE 250 of 432 ---

240
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
and worn than ever.
He called Walter and Edna into
the
office,
told them that he had had a very peculiar
dream the night before, that he had dreamed that he had
gone
to Paris and suddenly met Marie.
He was
so
strongly impressed with the dream that he decided to
leave at once.
Told Walter to give the mechanics
in-
structions to put his old ship "The St. Marie" in shape
to sail
at
once.
It was a matter of only a couple of days until they
reported that "The St. Marie" was in perfect shape and
could stand a trip around the world.
There was to be
a great convention of all the nations on aviation in Paris
and Robert decided that he wanted to be there for it, but
the main incentive for the trip was his dream.
Robert
had no trouble
in securing
letters
of introduction
to
prominent people in London and Paris.
When he said
good-bye to Walter and Edna, they wished him God-
speed, told him that they hoped his dream would be-
come a reality and that he would find Marie, but they
knew that he was not the same Robert of old.
He acted
as tho his spirit was broken.
On the morning of Feb-
ruary 2nd, 1929, Robert started his flight to Paris and
arrived there promptly in the evening and went to visit
some
friends and
acquaintances.
After
talking
over
the war situation and his forecasts of the great war yet
to come, he decided to visit friends in London.
England
and Russia were waging their
battles in the
air and
doing very little land fighting.
Despite the good start
that England had made, Russia and her allies were get-
ting the best of the victory.
Robert found London very
uninteresting.
Up to this time he had heard nothing of
Marie and decided to return to Paris.

--- PAGE 251 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
241
On a beautiful sunjiiny morning in the latter part of
Feburary, 1929, Robert was walking down a prominent
business
street
in Paris with no
special
objective in
mind.
He was feeling sick and gloomy and was walking
with his head down^ looking at the street.
Suddenly he
saw a form approaching very closely, and like a flash,
a woman
quickly passed him.
He was
sure
it was
Marie.
His heart was in his throat.
He turned around
quickly to follow her but she had disappeared.
Just as
she passed him she dropped a letter on the street and he
picked
it up, put
it in his pocket and rushed on down
the street, hoping to find her, but after exhausting him-
self running around, fighting his way thru the crowds,
without a glimpse of her, he decided to open the letter.
When he opened it it was written in a foreign language
which he did not understand.
He was not sure whether
it was Marie's handwriting or not.
His
first thought
was to go immediately to an interpreter and have the
letter read.
On second thought, he decided that it might
be something confidential and that he would go to an
old friend who lived in Paris and ask him to interpret
the letter.
Robert called on Louis Renan, stated the cir-
cumstance of his meeting Marie on the street and told
him about the
letter she dropped.
His friend gladly
consented to read the letter.
Robert handed
it to him
and he glanced over it
; handed it back to Robert without
a word, told him to get out of his house immediately and
never darken the
door
again.
Robert begged for an
explanation but
in vain.
His friend was angry and
determined and pushed Robert out of the door.
Robert
walked slowly back to his hotel, disappointed, mystified,
and heart-broken.
What could be the meaning of this

--- PAGE 252 of 432 ---

242
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
letter ?
Why should his friend offer no explanation as
to what it contained ?
Had he really met Marie and was
the letter from her ?
One thing he knew, he must find
out what this mysterious letter contained.
He decided
the next best plan was to go to an
interpreter,
so he
inquired at the hotel the name of an interpreter and was
informed where he could get any language interpreted.
He called at the address, explained his mission to the
manager and turned over the letter.
In a few minutes
the manager returned, handed him the letter, told him
there was the door, please get out and ask no questions.
Robert again begged for some explanation but the man
was defiant and refused to make any comment.
Robert returned to his hotel to think matters
over.
He bought a paper and looked over the news from ITew
York and market reports. He saw that cotton and stocks
were advancing as he expected, but money-making now
was of no interest to him when he at last thought that
he had found where Marie was.
He decided to place
a personal notice in all the papers in Paris, telling Marie
that he had passed her on the street, had found the let-
ter, was unable to get
it
interpreted, and beg her to
communicate with him at once.
He placed the notice in
the papers that afternoon.
Received an invitation from
some acquaintances in Paris to dine with them and go
to a ball. He wanted to refuse the invitation because he
did not feel equal to the occasion, but they insisted that
it would do him good and begged him to come along.
Robert had been so disappointed about the mysterious
letter and the sudden loss of Marie after he had seen
her, that he decided to say nothing about the incident

--- PAGE 253 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
243
to his friends.
After dinner was over, they chatted with
Robert, and he seemed more cheerful.
They told Robert
of the Aviators' Costume Ball to take place in the Hotel
Lafayette that night and asked him to go along.
Rob-
ert tried to beg off and made the excuse that he had no
costume for this occasion, but they told him that they
had already ordered one for him and there was no get-
ting out of it—he had to go, so finally he consented.
When they arrived at the hotel and entered the ball-
room, Robert's friends, who knew of his great fame in
iN'ew York and his success in speculative markets, were
anxious
to
introduce him
to the prominent men and
women of Paris.
Aviators were there from all over the
world.
They had come for the great convention.
Each
country was competing for the grand prize for the most
efficient airplane and the best one suited for war pur-
poses.
They asked Robert if he did not have a plane to
enter or
if he could not demonstrate something with
"The
St. Marie."
He told them that his health was
not good and that he was not interested in entering a
plane at this time.
The ballroom was decorated with
everything connected with airplanes.
Miniature planes
were flying around the room, circling up and down from
the ceilings.
It was a gorgeous display and while it was
dazzling to others, Robert paid very little attention to
it.
His friends,
in order to please him and get him
interested, had the radio tuned into New York and were
getting music from the Biltmore.
The dance started.
Robert watched
but was
very
little
interested.
His
friends invited him to dance but he refused.
He had
BO thoughts of anything but Marie.
As he was sitting,

--- PAGE 254 of 432 ---

244
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
watching the dancers whirl around the floor, suddenly
he looked across the hall and again he saw Marie dressed
like an eagle, queen of the air.
He made a mad rush
thru the crowd to the other side of the hall and when
he got there, he could see no Marie.
The ordeal was
too much for him.
He
fell unconscious on the
floor.
Friends rushed to his assistance and after reviving him,
he explained to them that he had seen Marie again and
asked them to find her and bring her to him.
After
investigation, they told him that there was no one there
by that name and that none of the ladies had
left the
ballroom.
They brought them all before him and intro-
duced him, but Marie was not among them.
Robert
was not only sick at heart but sick physically, and his
friends
realized
it and
called
a nerve
specialist,
Dr.
Descartes.
Robert explained what had happened, about
meeting Marie on the street and about seeing her at the
ball,
altho he said nothing about the mysterious
letter
to the Doctor.
The Doctor, after examining him, told
his friends he thought that he was suffering from mental
delusions—that he had probably had this woman on his
mind so long and after dreaming he had met her on a
street
in Paris, had hoped
so strongly that he would
meet her, he had brought himself to believe that she was
there and had really thought that he had seen her, both
on the street and in the ballroom, but it was probably an
optical delusion and after he got better he would realize
that he hadn't seen Marie.
Several days passed before Robert
fully recovered.
In the meantime, he had become quite friendly with
Dr. Descartes and told him a great deal about his his-

--- PAGE 255 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
245
tory.
The Doctor was very much interested and had
a great desire to help him.
Robert finally decided to
confide in him about the mysterious letter.
The Doctor
had a brother in 'New York and was going to give Robert
a letter of introduction to him upon his return.
While
they were on the subject of the letter of introduction,
Robert
told him
about
the mysterious
letter and the
Doctor agreed to get a friend of his who could interpret
it, to read the letter for him.
Robert was very happy
because he thought that if he could get the meaning of
the letter it would throw some light on what the trouble
was with Marie.
While he had been sick, his mind had
wandered and he had imagined all kinds of things, and
for a few moments, doubted Marie.
He even thought
that she might have turned out to be a bad woman and
was now in Paris, having a gay time, but
as soon as
his mind returned to
its normal state, his old faith in
Marie returned, and he loved her as of old and believed
that she could do no wrong.
The next day Dr. Descartes called, took Robert with
him in his car to his friend who was an interpreter.
Robert handed him the letter and, after looking it over,
he handed
the
letter back
to
Robert,
turned
to
the
Doctor, and said, ^'Have you no more respect for my
friendship than to insult me in a manner like this.
Be-
gone, and never
let me see you in my house
again.'
The Doctor begged for an explanation and Robert
of-
fered his apologies, saying
it was
all his fault and the
Doctor was only trying to aid him, but the man refused
to
discuss the matter and they hurried away.
When
they got in the car, Dr. Descartes knew that the shock

--- PAGE 256 of 432 ---

246
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
was too mucli for Robert so lie drove him Immediately
to the
hotel without
discussing the mysterious
letter.
After he had gotten him in his room and made him com-
fortable, he begged Robert not to worry about the letter,
told him that he would think the matter over and
call
and see him the next day.
Robert was very much worried.
His hope was fast
giving way to
despair.
He again realized that hope
deferred maketh the heart grow sick.
He thought of
Henry Watson's story and wondered if he would have
to go thru life and die without ever again seeing Marie.
Dr. Descartes
called the following day and
w^as very
solicitous of Robert's welfare.
Told him to forget the
incident about the letter and advised Robert to try to
get it interpreted when he returned to "New York.
Rob-
ert
told him more
about
Marie's
disappearance
and
showed him the note that Marie had placed in his pocket
on the train to St. Louis.
The Doctor read
it and said
it certainly left room for hope, and while
it was mys-
terious, he felt that Marie fully intended at some time
to come back to him.
Robert had received no reply
to his personal notices in the Paris newspapers and de-
cided to return to ISTew York in a few days.
In the early part of March a lot of the aviators were
returning from Paris to ISTew York after the convention
and Robert decided to go home with them.
They
in-
sisted that he was not physically able to sail "The St.
Marie" alone and sent a pilot along with him.
The trip
was uneventful and on March
5th Robert arrived
in
"New York.
On his arrival he went immediately to his
office and laboratories where he found Walter and Edna

--- PAGE 257 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
247
glad to see him.
They told him that he looked much
improved in health.
He related all his experiences in
Paris and the mysterious letter.
Walter was very much
amazed and at a loss to understand it all.
He could not
understand,
if
Marie
had
dropped
the
letter
and
had really seen Eobert on the
street and
at the
hall,
why she would not answer his personal notices in the
papers and at least clear up the mystery of her disap-
pearance.
Robert decided to go immediately to an in-
terpreter in !N'ew York and see if he could get the mys-
terious letter read.
After handing
it to the man who
spoke
about
ten
different
languages,
the
interpreter
handed
it back to him and stated in a firm, gentleman-
like manner that he would like him to please leave the
office immediately and never return.
Robert went
at
once to his
office and told Walter and Edna what had
happened.
They talked
it over and advanced all kinds
of theories about what the
letter might
contain,
and
asked Robert if any of the interpreters had ever given
any information or stated whether they could read the
letter or not.
Robert told them they had not.
Edna
thought that probably the letter contained a message to
the interpreter not to give any information or to reveal
what
it contained
to Robert or anyone
else.
Walter
thought if this were the case, that some of the interpreters
who seemed to be insulted by it, would have immediately
destroyed the letter instead of handing
it back to him.
The more theories they advanced, the less plausible the
mystery seemed.
Robert decided to write to a famous as-
trologer in Canada whom he had heard
of.
He sent
along his date of birth, telling him the history of the

--- PAGE 258 of 432 ---

us
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
case, to see if he could give him any light on the subject,
telling the astrologer that he would pay $50,000.00 or
more if necessary, if he could solve the problem and tell
him what the letter contained and how to get
it inter-
preted or give him any information leading to the where-
abouts of Marie.
The astrologer answered
as follows
after making
the
calculation from
Robert's
date
of
birth:
While
it
is a very peculiar ease, the events were not acci-
dents at
all but the result of Natural Law.
The young lady
still
lives and
I believe will again come into your
life three
or four years
later.
The great trouble was that on the day
she
disappeared,
Mercury,
your
ruling
planet,
applied
to
an
evil aspect of Uranus,
the great
eccentric, revolutionary,
mysterious planet, and this indicated disappointment, trouble
and delays, over letters or writings and the letters would be
mysterious and hard to understand.
In view of the fact that
Jupiter, Mars, and Mercury, as well as Venus, were all chang-
ing signs just around the time she disappeared,
it meant that
there would
be many
changes
and
long
delays
before
the
mystery would be solved, that there was great danger of let-
ters being
lost or miscarried, and
that
it was
possible
that
she may have
written you
letters which never reached you.
Neptune has much to do with the sea and its mysteries and as
it strongly influences the city of Paris, her appearance there
would be shrouded in mystery and there would be much that
could not be explained.
It is very doubtful if you will get any
explanation or interpretation of the mysterious
letter.
There
is something visionary about
it,
or the appearance of Marie
may have been a spiritual apparition.
If you will visit cities near beautiful watering places in the
South or Southwest, and could come in contact with an honest
spiritualist or clairvoyant,
it may be of some benefit and help
in some way to solve the mystery.
In view of the condition

--- PAGE 259 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
249
of your
health
and
the
planet
Saturn
is
afflicting
you,
it
would be advisable
to spend the balance of the Winter and
early part of the Spring in a tropical climate.
Florida would
be especially good for you and might bring favorable results
in more ways than one.
If you will give me time to
figure
on your horoscope and have patience I will guarantee to
tell
you the time that you will find Marie.
The progressed Mars
is traveling toward a conjunction of Venus,
the Goddess of
Love, and when this is completed she will probably come back
into your
life.

--- PAGE 260 of 432 ---

250
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXI
ROBERT was very much encouraged by this letter
because he had great confidence in Astrology and
in this man's
ability.
He decided to go immediately
to Florida for a rest and
visit
all the beautiful
spots
and watering places that he could
find, hoping to get
some news of Marie.
Going directly to Palm Beach,
Florida, he met some friends
of Conan Doyle's who
were very much interested in spiritualism.
They told
him
that
a famous
spiritualist, Lady Bersford from
England, had been
there,
and
that they believed she
could help solve the problem.
Robert asked where he
could find her and was told that she had gone to Ocala,
Florida,
to
visit
Silver
Springs
and
investigate
the
legend of Silver Springs,
the
story about
a beautiful
young girl who drowned herself in the Springs.
A Legend
(The following story combines the accuracies of fact
with the romance of fiction.
Aunt Silly lived at Silver
Springs until her death, about sixteen years
ago, and
was seen by many who visited the Springs.
It is from
the gifted pen of Mrs. Maley Bainbridge Crist)
:
Near Florida's celebrated Silver Springs lives an old negress,
known
to
the
entire surrounding
country
as "Aunt
Silly,"
whose claim to being 110 years old
is borne out by her ap-

--- PAGE 261 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
251
pearance.
Aunt Silly
is wrinkled and decrepit, and the wool
peeping from her bandanaed head
is white as snow, while the
blackness and weirdness of her face
is intensified by a heavy
crop of snow-white beard.
As long as the
oldest
citizen of
Ocala can remember Aunt Silly has looked just as ancient as
she
does
now;
identified
always
with
Silver
Springs,
and
hobbling about them from morning until night, leaning upon
her short, thick
staff.
That she was a participant in a tragedy is known only to a
very few of Ocala's oldest citizens, and seldom referred to by
any of them.
In the near vicinity of Ocala, when
first
it was
settled, stood a splendid old mansion owned by Capt. Harding
Douglass, a South Carolinian of considerable wealth.
His only
child was a son, who, with his mother's beauty of countenance,
had inherited her tender, shrinking nature, and, like
herself,
was a slave
to the old man's iron will.
In the beautiful
little
City of Ocala
lived Bernice Mayo, whose blond beauty won,
at first sight, the heart of Claire Douglass.
Although of Vir-
ginia
ancestry,
Bernice was
a
true
child
of
the "Land
of
Flowers," passionate and impulsive.
Her eyes were blue and
clear
as
the waters
of Lake Munroe,
beside which
she had
spent her childhood, in the fair
little City of Sanford.
Her
hair was as golden as Florida's own sunshine, and Florida's
tropical splendor ran riot in her blood.
For six months Ber-
nice Mayo and Claire Douglass were constant companions, and
Silver Springs was
their favorite
resort.
For half a day
at
a time they would
drift about on the bosom of the splendid,
placid curiosity of nature.
Bernice seemed never to tire of going into the depths of the
subterranean world.
"If I were a mermaid, Claire," she would
say, "and lived
in yon
crystal
cavern, and some
fair day
I
should wander forth among the palmettos and mosses of the
springs, and,
sitting on yonder ledge of rocks, should *comb
my golden hair with a shell,' and your boat should come drift-
ing by, and you were to
see me in the water beneath, would
you love me well enough to plunge, plunge to the depths be-
neath to woo me?"
Then would Claire stop her merry chatter

--- PAGE 262 of 432 ---

^52
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
with
his
kisses, and
pledge
to
her
his
eternal
love
as they
drifted
over
the transparent
mirror
of water,
pausing now
and then to study the rocks and
shells, the mosses, palmettos,
the
fish, which were
as
visible
eighty
feet below
the
trans-
parent water
as were
the
trees and woodland
about
them.
There
is nothing fairer than Ocala's "Lover's Lane," and yet
no spot held for these young people the
attraction of Silver
Springs, their constant trysting place.
But there came a fatal
day, destined to separate them. A day wherein Claire Doug-
lass
declared
to
his
father
his
love
for
beautiful,
penniless
Bemice Mayo, and
his
determination
to make her
his
wife.
Stormily,
his
father vowed
it should never
be, and
secretly
planned a separation.
When Claire Douglass had been speedily dispatched abroad
on important business for his father, then
it was that Bernice
learned the truth, and her proud, delicate nature lay crushed
and bleeding beneath the cruel blow and
still more cruel sep-
aration.
Vainly she
strove
to
rally;
all
life seemed but an empty
blank to her.
A year dragged wearily by, and the scenes fre-
quented by merry Bemice Mayo knew her no more.
Paler
and thinner she daily grew.
Fragile,
she was,
as the white
blossoms of her well-loved springs.
The
little chain of gold
that Claire had locked on her arm would have slipped across
the wasted, transparent hand, but for the ribbon that held
its
links.
One day
(her
last upon
earth)
the
girl, by
dint of
desperate energy, crept to
Silver Springs.
Even Aunt
Silly
was unprepared
for
the
white, emaciated
little
creature who
tottered
into her cabin and
fell fainting
in her arms.
Con-
sciousness soon returned, but
it was apparent even to the old
black woman that death had
set
its gray, unmistakable
seal
upon the young face.
"Aunt
Silly," gasped the
girl, "I have come to you to
die,
and you must
obey my
last
request;
the
grave
divulges no
secrets.
Ere
tonight's sun
sets
I
shall be
in
heaven.
This
separation from the man I love has been my death, but in that
death we shall be united.
I have asked God, and He has heard

--- PAGE 263 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
253
me. But you, Aunt Silly, you must obey my request. You love
me; you will do as I ask.
Tonight when the moon comes out,
row my body
to Boiling Springs, and bury me
there.
You
know the spot—make no mistake.
Do this, and God will attend
to the rest."
^'Good Gord A'mighty, chile, you think Aunt Silly am gwine
tote dade body
off
in the lonesomely night?" asked the
old
woman, her very teeth chattering with the superstitious fear
peculiar to her race.
The girl realized the risk of her plan
being thwarted, and
raising herself
to
a
sitting posture
she
seized
the old woman's hands and fixed her dying eyes
full
on her
face.
"Aunt Silly," she gasped, "I am a dying woman ; I am very
near to God;
I have talked with Him, and He has answered
me.
My will has been crushed in life, I swear
it shall not in
death.
Before twenty-four hours
Claire Douglass
shall
join
me
in the
crystal
cavern of
Silver
Springs.
If you do not
grant my
request
every
spirit
of
evil
shall
surround
you.
Palsied and
blind you
shall grow, and deaf—deaf
to
every
sound but the ghosts of the dead, which shall pursue you by
day and haunt you by night.
Do you swear to obey my dying
request, or will you refuse me, and reap the prophecy of a
dying woman, which shall rest upon your cowardly head for
refusing to obey God's will?"
The old woman was shaking like an aspen.
Her eyes pro-
truded with fear, and great beads of perspiration rolled down
her
cheeks.
The
strength of the dying
girl's
will had
pre-
vailed, and the old woman answered:
"I promises, honey; I
promises."
It was a solemn and awful sight that night, witnessed alone
by God
and
nature;
the
boat,
which
drifted down
Silver
Springs in the moonlight, bearing its two strange occupants
the one weird, bent, grotesque; the other, so
silent,
so white,
so
pathetic,
in
its dead
loveliness.
Not a leaf was
stirring,
not a sound heard, but the splash, splash of the old woman's
oars,
as her boat, with
its strange, beautiful burden,
drifted
over the
curious, transparent body of water; drifted until
it

--- PAGE 264 of 432 ---

254
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
reached Boiling
Springs, then veered
about and
stood
still.
Gently and
easily,
as
if
it had been a babe, the
old woman
lifted
the
little body.
Something
of her fear had departed
in the placid smile of the dead
face.
Tears rolled down her
dusky face as she bent forward in obedience to the girl's curi-
ous request.
For a moment the body rocked
to and fro on
the bosom of the water, upon which its happiest moments had
been
spent.
The dead
face
smiled, and
the wealth of hair
gleamed in the moonlight like a sheen of gold.
Every pebble
was
visible in the depths below.
Suddenly,
as
if by magic,
the body began sinking.
The boiling of the spring had ceased,
showing a peculiar
little
fissure in the rock from whence
all
the strange body of water came.
The
fissure slowly divided,
received the dead body and closed again, shutting every vestige
of it from view.
"Gord
A'mighty,
dat
chile
a
angel
sho'
nuff.
She mus'
done talked to de Lawd ; she knowed how all dat gwine to be,"
muttered the old woman, as she rowed back to her cabin in the
moonlight.
A mocking-bird on the opposite shore sent forth a flood of
silvery melody.
"Hear dat now," muttered Aunt
Silly; "dat
bird done
sendin'
forth
de weddin' song
o'
de
bridegroom.
Come on, Claire Douglass, yo'
little bride am waitin' for you
more pacifyin' den she waited many a long day."
The day
following
the
death
of Bemice Mayo was
one
never to be forgotten by the citizens of Ocala.
Claire Doug-
lass had just returned after a year's absence.
He found his
beautiful cousin (whom his father desired to become his wife)
a guest at the home of his parents.
"Claire,"
said his father
as they lingered
over the break-
fast table, "I have a
fine, new
skiff at Silver Springs, and I
wish you to take your cousin for a row
this morning;
and,
by the permission of you young people, I
shall make one of
your party."
"Delightful,
uncle,"
cried
the
girl;
and
Claire,
while
he
turned a
trifle pale
at the thought of returning to
the spot

--- PAGE 265 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
255
where
all
that had
given
color
to
his
life had
transpired,
could only acquiesce.
Claire
Douglass
looked
unusually handsome
as
the party
drifted down Silver Springs in the April sunshine, but there
was a curious pallor on his face, and the uncle and niece were
left
to carry on
all
the conversation.
What a
contrast
the
blooming girl in April sunshine bore to the one in the solemn
moonlight, who had drifted over the same water the evening
before!
As the
skiff neared Boiling Springs the party noted
a
little boat hovering over
it.
The boat was rowed by Aunt
Silly; and
its other occupant was an old woman, whose eyes
were swollen with weeping.
The skiff paused beside the
little
rowboat, and
the occupants of each gazed
into
the
curious,
transparent depths below.
Suddenly
the
niece
cried
out,
''Oh,
see,
that
looks
like a
hand;
a
little human hand!"
Plainer and more
visible
it
grew, the little white hand with its gold chain locked above the
slender
wrist.
Ah,
little hand,
Claire Douglass would have
known you among ten thousand hands!
His face was white
as death and he gasped
as though choking.
All were intent
upon
the
scene
below.
Suddenly
the
boiling
of
the water
ceased, and out upon a rock in
its transparent depths, like a
broken,
beautiful
lily,
lay Bemice
Mayo,
her
golden
hair
floating on the sand, her dead face smiling placidly, as
if at
last a halo of peace had descended upon the tired spirit, and
the broken heart had found rest.
With a wild cry that pierced
even the heart of the mother, who for the
last time
in
life
gazed upon the dead face of her child, Claire Douglass dashed
overboard, diving deeper, ever deeper, until he caught in his
arms the little figure of his dead love.
Then once more the rock divided and closed, shutting from
view forever the
lovers, who lay locked
in each
other's em-
brace.
And again the water whirled and boiled
in
its mad
fury,
as
if
to defy the puny
will
of him who would have
separated what God had
joined
together.
As for the
first time
the
secret
bridal chamber of
Silver

--- PAGE 266 of 432 ---

S56
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Springs has been made known to the world,
it will be
inter-
esting to
its future visitors, as they approach that part of
it
known as "Boiling Springs," to note in the whir of the water
beneath
(the
only
part
of
the water
not
perfectly
placid)
the
constant
shower
of
tiny,
pearl-like
shells
poured
forth
from the
fissure
in the rock, and which Aunt
Silly says
are
the jewels the angels gave Bernice Mayo upon her wedding
morning when her lover joined her
in
their fairy palace in
Silver
Springs.
There
is,
too, a
curious
flower growing
in
the
springs—a
flower
with
leaf
like
a
lily,
and
a blossom
shaped
like an orange blossom.
Its peculiar waxy whiteness
and yellow petals are like Bernice Mayo's face and hair. Aunt
Silly
says,
and
she
calls
them
"Bernice
Bridal
Wreath."
There
is a legend among the young people of Ocala that a
woman presented with one of
these blossoms
will become
a
bride ere the close of the year.

--- PAGE 267 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
257
CHAPTER XXII
ROBERT was greatly impressed with this story and
what they told him about the wonderful powers
of Lady Bersford.
After consulting with his friends,
he decided to go immediately to Silver Springs to see
her.
On Sunday morning about 10 o'clock he boarded
a local airplane for Silver Springs and arrived in the
afternoon.
It was a fitting setting for the scene.
The
day was beautiful, the sunshine at its best.
Robert had
watched the plane as it flew swiftly across the country.
He had viewed the many beautiful orange groves and
thought of the wonderful work of the hand of Nature
in painting beauty grander than any hand of man could
ever do.
Here he thought of something that he would
write of Marie in contrast to her beauty.
After thoughts
of Marie's beauty had
flitted thru
Robert's brain and his dream and hope for Marie had
revived, he was feeling hopeful and enthusiastic.
Lady
Bersford upon receiving the letter of introduction from
her friends, greeted Robert with unusual courtesy.
He
told his story.
She listened attentively and when he had
finished telling her about the mysterious letter, she said
that there was an interpreter at the hotel who under-
stood most any foreign language and that she was sure
he could
interpret the
letter.
Robert was
elated
be-
cause Lady Bersford showed such a great interest and

--- PAGE 268 of 432 ---

^58
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
desire to help him.
He related all the obstacles he had
met with in trying to get the letter interpreted before,
and had almost lost hope of ever getting
it interpreted.
She assured him that her friendship with the interpreter
would at this time bring results.
Robert was anxious to see Silver Springs and Lady
Bersford was anxious for him to go and see it immedi-
ately and
said that
after
their return she would
see
the interpreter and get the mysterious letter read.
They
went to the Springs and slowly rode out on the beautiful
waters.
Robert had heard the story and when the boat
slowly came to a stop over "The Bridal Chamber'' and
he saw the face of a beautiful woman in the rocks his
heart almost
failed him.
He thought of the sorrows
he had gone thru and wondered
if such a fate might
have been Marie's.
The beautiful waters reflected the
most radiant
colors Robert had ever seen in his
life.
He secretly prayed the greatest prayer of his
life, that
he might meet Marie here and with
all of her beauty,
where they could enjoy the beauty of nature together.
When he looked thru the transparent waters
into the
bridal chamber^
it brought him back to Sunday morn-
ing, June
5,
1927, when he had
expected
to marry
Marie.
Tears streamed down his cheeks and Lady Bers-
ford realizing the situation and knowing that she could
say
little, remained in silence until Robert's emotions
had passed.
Then she told of her admiration for his
love and devotion to Marie and said that a scene like
this, painted by the hand of J^ature was calculated to
melt the heart of the most cold-blooded man on earth.
Robert asked the man who was rowing the boat to row

--- PAGE 269 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
259
back
to the place where the face
of the
spirit bride
showed in the water and as he looked down at the face
again, he thought of Marie and this
is what he said:
''Most beautiful face in all the world^ best beloved eyes
that inspired the best in me, the days pass by on leaden
wings, when only in memory your dear eyes shine for
me.''
Somehow the beautiful waters and the scenery
inspired a new hope in Robert, for love must ever in-
spire hope in man when his faith in a woman keeps
the lovelight burning on the altar of his heart.
Robert
and Lady
Bersford
returned
to
the
hotel.
After dinner, Lady Bersford met Robert and told him
that she had found the interpreter and he had agreed
to
read
the mysterious
letter
that
evening.
Robert,
having met with so many disappointments, felt that he
must make sure this time he would get the letter read.
He met the interpreter, went over the whole story with
him, told him that no matter what the letter contained,
good or bad, he must know the truth and nothing but
the truth.
Said he would pay any sum that the
in-
terpreter might name,
and pay
it
in
advance,
if he
would agree to read the letter regardless of what it con-
tained.
His plea was
so earnest that the interpreter
saw that his heart was breaking and told him that no
amount of money would influence him as much to read
the letter as the desire to relieve an honest, loyal heart
which was breaking for a great love.
Such men as he
was our country's need in time of peril and such loyalty
and devotion to a woman was found in but few men;
that it seemed more divine than real, and that he would
interpret the letter gladly and willingly.
When Robert

--- PAGE 270 of 432 ---

260
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
was fully assured at this time that there would be no
disappointment, he was supremely happy.
He grabbed
the hand of Lady Bersford, thanked her, and fell upon
his knees
before the
interpreter and thanked him
in
advance for his promise to interpret the letter.
'^^N'ow
let us delay no longer," said the interpreter,
"give me the letter and I will read
it/'
Robert had
always carried the letter in a wallet in his pocket, never
letting
it get out of his possession.
Had
it carefully
folded up in some other papers.
He pulled forth the
wallet from his pocket, opened it up and looked for the
letter.
It was not there.
He searched the wallet care-
fully but there was no mistake about
it.
The letter was
gone.
The disappointment was another great blow to
him.
He talked the matter over with the interpreter
and Lady Bersford and was at a loss to understand how
the letter could have disappeared from his pocket.
Was
sure that he had
it when he was in Palm Beach.
He
telegraphed the hotel in Palm Beach and after making a
search, they reported that they were unable to find the
letter.
Lady Bersford realized the keen disappointment
that the loss of this mysterious letter had brought Robert,
so she told him that she would use her spiritual powers
every way possible to solve the mystery of the letter and
try to help him find Marie, and that if he would leave
her alone in silence that night, the following day she
would report to him the information she received.
Robert arose early the next morning and decided that
he would go
to Silver Springs and
see this beautiful
spot just as the sun was rising.
It was a beautiful morn-
ing and he rode out upon the waters,
listened to the

--- PAGE 271 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
261
songs of the birds, watched the beautiful
fish running
to and fro in the clear waters.
He again thought of the
story of the spirit bride whom the legend said appeared
upon the waters on moonlight nights.
His mind went
back to the fishing trip
at Spirit Lake, Arkansas.
He
thought of the story of Spirit Lake and how he was im-
pressed as a child with that story.
ISTow it seemed more
vivid and
real.
His mind reverted back to the death
of Henry Watson and he thought ^'Is
it my fate to visit
places and
to hear
stories
of tragedy and disappoint-
ment of
lovers, and
in the end,
will my fate be like
theirs?
Must I sink into the waters of forgetfulness
without ever again seeing the best beloved face in
all
the world, Marie's ?
After all,
is it like Henry Watson
said: 'Hope
is but an anchor
to
the
soul,
but
facts
are stubborn things and we must face them V "
For a
moment, Robert felt that he had been clinging to hope
all these years and he was almost ready
to bid hope
depart and leave him alone to facts, but even then he
knew that
if hope should depart and not hold
aloft a
light of Marie's love, he at that moment would follow
the course of the lover of the spirit bride and go over-
board,
to be swallowed up
in the beautiful waters,
to
release his spirit, that it might soar away to find Marie.
The man who was rowing the boat, noticed that Robert
had fallen into a death-like silence.
He asked him
if
he was ready to return.
Robert awakened
as
if by a
shot and said
''Yes.''

--- PAGE 272 of 432 ---

262
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXIII
HE
drove back to the hotel, fonnd Lady Bersford
awaiting him.
He
ate his breakfast hurriedly
and retired to a secret corner in the hotel where they
would be alone and he could hear what Lady Bersford
had gathered from the
spirit world the night before.
Her first words when he entered the room were, "Mr.
Gordon, I have good news for you and I know that you
can depend on
it.
Last night a spirit appeared that I
had never seen or heard before.
It was an Indian girl,
named ^Laughing Waters,' who said she was the daugh-
ter of Chief Okeehumkee who once lived near
Silver
Springs and on account of the
loss
of her lover had
drowned herself in the Springs.
At this point Lady
Bersford handed
Robert Gordon
a booklet on
Silver
Springs containing a legend about the death of Laugh-
ing Waters, and he read it hastily.
AN INDIAN LEGEND
A long time ago when Okeehumkee was king over the tribes
of Indians who roamed and hunted around the Southwestern
lakes, an event occurred which filled many hearts with horror.
The king had a daughter whose rare beauty was the pride of
the
old man^s
life, and an
idol
of the
braves.
She was a
coveted prize.
Chiefs and warriors vied with each other as
to who should present the most valuable gift, when her hand
was sought from the king, her father.
But the daughter had

--- PAGE 273 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
263
already seen and loved Chuleotah, the renewed chief of a tribe
which dwelt among the wild groves of Silver Springs.
But
it was a sad truth that between the old chief and the young
chief, and
their
tribes,
there had
long been a deadly
feud.
They were enemies.
When Okeehumkee learned that Chuleo-
tah had gained the
affections of
his beloved
child, not many
weeks passed away before the noble Chuleotah was slain.
Slain,
too, by
the
father.
Dead!
Her
lover
dead!
Poor
child.
Will she return
to
the paternal lodge and dwell among her
people while her father's hand
is stained with the drippings
of her
lover's
scalp?
No.
She
hurries away
to
the
well-
known fountain.
It was a favorite
spot, where herself and
Chuleotah met on
the
glassy bottom
of
the
Springs.
The
pale ghost of Chuleotah stands beckoning her
to come.
All
was
still save the night winds that sighed and moaned thru
the lofty pines.
Then came the girl to the side of the Springs.
For a moment she paused upon the edge of the Springs, then
met her palms above her head, and, with a wild leap, she
fell
into
the whelming
waves.
She
had
gone
to
one
of
those
enchanted isles, far out in the Western Seas, where the maiden
and her lover are united, and where both have found another
Silver Springs.
Lady Bersford
said
that Laughing
Waters'
spirit
told her that after she drowned herself and her spirit
was released, she had been very happy in finding others
who met disappointment in love and helping to relieve
their sufferings and bring about an understanding and
reunite the separated.
Laughing Waters said: "Marie
is
still
alive and for mysterious reasons
is keeping in
hiding from her parents and everyone else, but her love
is as strong as the Eock of Gibraltar, and she will keep
her promise
to
return
to Robert when he needs
her
most.
It was the spirit of Marie that Robert saw on the

--- PAGE 274 of 432 ---

264
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
streets in Paris.
Marie was not there and never had
been, but Robert loved her so much and longed for her
until Marie's spirit^ which had always been closely in
touch with Robert, was able to leave her body and ap-
pear to comfort him.
It was Marie's spirit he saw at
the ballroom.
She was not there
at
all.
It occurred
because Robert needed some hope and encouragement
to go on and wait until the proper time when Marie
would return to him.
The mysterious letter never ex-
isted.
It was
a delusion and a power
of the subcon-
scious mind.
This power
is known and understood by
the adepts of India.
Some of my tribe knew how to
project the subconscious mind, or spirit, as some called
it, an^^vhere they desired.
Robert's subconscious mind
had received impressions so long and he had hoped and
desired so long for a letter from Marie, that when her
spirit appeared he expected a message, a letter, or some
communication, and he
really thought
she dropped a
letter.
This power
so
strongly impressed
the
subcon-
scious mind that he was able to make other people feel,
believe and see the letter, but of course they could not
read or interpret
it, because there was no letter or writ-
ten message and that
is why they all ^cted so strangely
about
it.
When Robert
at last met you, a spiritualist
and an unselfish woman, and the interpreter, an honest,
unselfish man refusing to accept any amount of money
to read the mysterious letter, I knew that no letter ever
existed and removed the impression from Robert's sub-
conscious mind and when he went to look for the letter,
of course
it was not
there, and never was because
it
only existed in his subconscious mind."

--- PAGE 275 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
265
After this, Robert was mucli more cheerful and hope-
ful.
His own mind told him that he was at last on the
right track.
He thought of the laws laid down in the
Bible; remembered what Jesus said when they asked
him for a sign that the Son of man would remain three
days and three nights in the heart of the earth, then
rise and ascend to heaven.
Robert knew the meaning
of this.
He knew that sorrows,
sufferings and disap-
pointment had to come before joy and happiness; for
every day of sunshine comes a night of darkness, for
every aching
in
the
heart
there
is
a returning
flow.
That
all the laws of Nature taught the eternal law of
action and
reaction.
He took great comfort
in
this;
knew that the promise was laid down in the Bible of
great reward for love and faithfulness and he felt very
happy because he believed ^^Laughing Waters' "
story
that Marie would come into his life again.
Robert remained a few days longer at Silver Springs.
Enjoyed being with Lady Bersford and told her of his
understanding of the Bible and natural laws.
She said
that
the
pure,
clean
life
he had
led was what
had
brought him in
contact with the
spirits that had
re-
vealed to him the truth.
Many seances were held with
^Taughing Waters," who was very fond of Robert and
anxious to help him all she could.
She said that Robert
had a love the same as she had, that he had rather die
than give up Marie, but that he would attain the great-
est honor of any man on earth except Jesus Christ, be-
cause he was following the law of love and that law
would bring to him his own Marie and he would spend
many happy years with
her.
She told him that
the

--- PAGE 276 of 432 ---

266
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
great Chief whose spirit was with her, had confirmed all
she had told them.
When Robert prepared to depart from Silver Springs,
his heart was filled with gratitude, for Lady Bersford
and
all she had done for him.
He wanted to pay her
for her services and if she would name the amount, he
would write a check for it.
She explained that she was
a very wealthy woman, with a large estate in England
;
that she had gone into this work at the solicitation of
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, for the good that she could do
for others and not for any monetary consideration.
Her
reward for being unselfish and trying to help him was
his appreciation, she said.
This attitude on the part of
Lady Bersford was a great comfort to Robert and gave
him more faith in the Bible.
He knew that the law
that "whatsoever a man soweth, he shall also reap" was
a divine law and a natural law, that no man could break
it or evade
it, and that his reward was just as sure as
the law was inevitable.
He had read Emerson's "Essay
on Compensation," and strongly believed that.
He said
to Lady Bersford, "Your reward
is sure, because you
are doing
right,
giving out
the
best you can
to help
others, and only good will return to you."
Lady Bersford
said, "Thank you very much, Mr.
Gordon, I have enjoyed our
visits and hope that we
will meet again some time.
May I ask where you are
going from here?"
"I am going direct to IsTew York
as
I
have
important
business
matters
to
look
after
there,"
he
replied.
^'Mr.
Gordon,
you
don't
look
strong," she said.
"It seems to me you need to take
more care of your health and have more
rest.
I am

--- PAGE 277 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
267
going from
liere to Sebring, Florida.
Have heard
so
many
stories
of
this wonderful place that I want
to
go there to recoup my health.''
''Is it a health resort ?"
asked Robert.
Lady Bersford said, "I understand there
is a sunshine sanitarium there.
They teach you how
to eat and play.
The water
is the finest in the State
of Florida; in
fact, one of the few places in Florida
where you can get good drinking water.
The climate is
ideal.
Lake Jackson, one of the most beautiful lakes
in the State is near there, as well as many others.
I am
told the fishing and boating
is
fine.
The Kissimmee
River is near there.
This beautiful river
is associated
with
songs
and
stories
of
the
Southland
and
I am
anxious to see
it.
I met some friends in England who
spent the past winter at Sebring and they were enthusi-
astic over the place.
They had regained their health
and felt that it was the place Ponce de Leon was looking
for when he made his search to find the fountain of
youth.
They said that Sebring had more sunshine than
any other place in Florida.
I made up my mind that
I would never leave Florida before I visited this won-
derful spot and see what it would do for my health."
Robert was very much impressed with Lady Ber&-
ford's report on Sebring and decided that
it must be
the ideal place for a tired business man to go and enjoy
the sports and recoup his
health.
It took very
little
persuading on the part of Lady Bersford to get Robert
to go to Sebring with her.
On March 2Tth, Lady Bersford and Robert Gordon
arrived
in
Sebring,
Florida.
They found everything
just as had been described by her friends.
The climate

--- PAGE 278 of 432 ---

26S
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
was ideal, fishing good.
Robert enjoyed tlie golf links
and his health began to improve a few days
after he
arrived.
Time went by rapidly and a month was gone
before Robert knew
it.
He had
regained
health
so
rapidly that he felt he had indeed found the Fountain
of Youth.
Having been born on the farm, he loved
nature. The beautiful scenery around Sebring delighted
him; made him forget his troubles and caused him to
be more hopeful of the future.
He dreamed of the day
when Marie might return to him, and he could take her
to
Florida
to
see
beautiful
Silver
Springs,
then
to
Sebring to see all the beautiful lakes and the Kissimmee
River.
If her health should ever be bad,
that would
be the place
to
restore her and
she would enjoy the
surrounding country as he had.

--- PAGE 279 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
^69
CHAPTER XXIV
I!N"
the latter part of April, Robert decided that
lie
must return to ISTew York and take up his duties.
He said good-bye to Lady Bersford.
Was profuse in
his thanks; assured her that he owed her a great debt
of gratitude for the comforting messages that she had
brought to him thru "Laughing Waters'' and above all
was under lasting obligation for the great kindness she
had rendered in bringing him to Sebring where he had
fully regained his health.
She assured him that
it was
a real pleasure to her to have been of service and
in-
vited him to
visit her estate in England on his next
trip over.
As Robert started toward ISTew York, his heart was
light, his hopes were revived and he had greater faith
than ever that Marie was
alive and would in the not
distant future return to him.
When he arrived in !N"ew
York he went direct to his office and laboratory.
Walter
and Edna greeted him with enthusiasm.
Were happy
to see him looking so
well.
Walter grabbed both of
Robert's hands and said, "Old pal, I have never seen
you looking so well.
You must have found Ponce de
Leon's fountain
of
eternal youth while you were
in
Florida."
Robert replied, "I certainly did.
Had some
W^onderful experience at Silver Springs, the most beau-
tiful spot in Florida.
It was there that I received in-
formation that made me very happy becuse it made me

--- PAGE 280 of 432 ---

^70
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
sure that Marie
is
alive and will return to me.
Also
while there I heard about the most wonderful health
resort in the world at Sebring, Florida, where I went
and
indeed found
the
^fountain
of youth/
spending
over a month there playing,
fishing and boating.
It
is about the only place in Florida where you can get
good water to drink without having it shipped in.
The
sunshine and climate are ideal.
I began to get better
the second day after I was there and gained strength
every day.
You should certainly go to Florida on a
vacation next winter and spend your time at Sebring.
If you ever get married, be sure to go to Silver Springs
on your honeymoon for you will enjoy this beautiful
spot and scenery.
Take the trip down Silver River to
the
Ocklawaha,
then down
the
beautiful
St.
Johns
River.
If you can make the trip next March or early
April, you will find I^Tature at her best.
You will forget
all of your troubles, for ^Nature has so staged the scenery
that it reminds you only of pleasant things and inspires
hope and happiness in the future."
When Robert had finished telling about the beauties
of Florida, Walter acted bashful and Edna looked rather
sheepish.
Then Walter said,
"Robert, we have a big
surprise for you.
Edna and I are going to be married
in June."
"Well, this is quite a surprise," said Robert,
"but I knew
it would come sooner or later.
You must
have thought I guessed it when I talked about you going
on a honeymoon.
I
congratulate you both and wish
you
all the happiness in the world.
You are entitled
to it and I know that you will be happy together."
The news of their coming marriage was not the only

--- PAGE 281 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
271
good news ihej had.
Walter and Edna had been work-
ing day and night for months on a great chemical dis-
covery and had now succeeded in completing
it.
This
discovery was a perfectly harmless gas
to be used
in
war or for medical purposes.
It would put people to
sleep and they would remain asleep for 7 days, with no
ill effects.
It had always been Robert's desire to have
something to use in war which would not destroy human
lives and he was very much elated over Walter's
dis-
covery.
Walter told him that he had already tested
it
and that Edna had such confidence in him, she had taken
the
gas, remained
asleep
for 7
days, and
felt no
ill
effects. Walter knew just exactly why
it w^orked,
be-
cause he was a great chemist and knew the natural law
behind the discovery.
He told Robert that this must
be kept a secret until time of war when with the new
ship "Marie the Angel of Mercy," traveling lOOQ miles
an hour, they could go from one city to another or from
one battlefield to another, release the gas and put every-
one to sleep for 7 days.
In the meantime, with "The
Demon
of
Death"—they
could
destroy
the
enemy's
bases and fortifications;
w^ould be able to make their
own peace terms with the enemy, and at the same time
obey the divine command of God "Thou shalt not kill."
Cotton had been advancing rapidly and Robert and
Walter were making money fast.
Robert told Walter
and Edna that on June 9th, his birthday, he was going
to give them a big dinner and celebration before their
marriage.
It was now time to declare a holiday and
have a real jubilee celebration after their great discov-
eries were completed, that
it was but fitting to crown

--- PAGE 282 of 432 ---

9n%
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
the event with the marriage of Edna and Walter.
They
were now in position to
sit calmly by and wait for the
great war
in the
air knowing
that, with their
secret
discoveries, they were prepared to save the United States
in time of war and at the same time without sacrificing
too many human lives.
The
birthday
party was
a
great
success.
Robert
spared no expense
in order to have everything of the
best.
Before the dinner which was served in a private
dining-room, Robert sprung a great surprise.
He arose
and made the following speech:
^'Comrades and friends,
we have traveled the path of life together.
Some of
us have run the gauntlet of human emotions.
We have
gone down to the depths of despair; have reached the
heights of financial glory ; have seen our greatest dreams
realized.
God has been good to us.
Our great discov-
eries
are now
completed.
Eame
and
fortune
have
corwned our efforts.
You^ Edna and Walter, are now
to reach the heights of greatest bliss.
You are to have
the satisfaction of being united in marriage, to continue
your work together and do the greatest good for the great-
est number.
You have been unselfish in your devotion
to me and in your loyalty to your country.
The Bible
says that where two or three are gathered together, there
God will be to own and to bless.
Since God created the
world,
the Holy Trinity has been the greatest power
and it is referred to many times in the Bible as Father,
Son
and Holy
Ghost,
and
on
this mundane
sphere
we know that happiness comes to husband,
wife and
child.
The Bible says that one cannot do much alone,
that there is need of two together, and that a threefold

--- PAGE 283 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
273
cord is not easily broken.
Edna, your devotion to Wal-
ter
lias been
bis
inspiration and bas
led bim
to tbe
great discovery wbicb will relieve suffering in tbe world.
Your
confidence
in bim
in
placing your
life
in
bis
bands to test tbis great discovery, deserves great credit
and no bonor or reward
is too great for you, but tbe
bonor tbat men can give or tbe world or your Govern-
ment, are but empty and mean notbing to tbe beart of
a loyal woman.
You are to bave tbe greatest reward
in Walter's love and tbis means more to you tban any
bonors tbe world can give.
It
will satisfy wben tbe
sbouts of tbe bero-worsbippers bave died away.
Wben
money, witb
all
it can buy, bas vanisbed and notbing
else remains but tbe loveligbt in Walter's eyes, you will
find
bappiness."
Robert
tben
presented
a
beautiful
broocb made witb tbe seal of Solomon^ constructed witb
a double triangle, and set witb tbree beautiful diamonds.
In tbe center of tbe seal was a beart and in tbe center
of tbe beart was a diamond.
He said, ^^Edna, I present
tbis to you as your wedding gift.
It will be a symbol
to you of bow tbe tbree of us bave worked togetber in
love,
loyalty and
faitb,
to
accomplisb sometbing
for
otbers tbru unselfisb devotion.
Witb tbe love of tbe
one must come tbe love of tbe many.
One toucb
of
ISTature makes tbe wbole world kin, and wben once a
woman's eyes bave looked into a man's witb understand-
ing love, be need seek no fartber for tbe pbilosopber's
stone, because after tbat everytbing be toucbes will turn
to gold.
Tbis broocb and tbe diamonds are emblematic
of your purity.
Tbe diamonds
are tbe most durable
and beautiful of
all precious
stones.
Tbey
reflect
all

--- PAGE 284 of 432 ---

274
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
the beautiful colors of the rainbow which reveals God's
covenant with man.
That
is why the diamonds
are
used as an engagement ring, but few there are who know
and understand the real meaning and live in accordance
with
it.
You will ever
reflect the beauty of the
dia-
monds.
Your love for Walter, which
is the love I am
sure never changes, will remain fixed as the mountain
ranges.
Remember that the diamond has gone thru the
greatest
fire and
heat
and has emerged with
all
its
strength and beauty.
You must learn to go thru trials
and tribulations, to help Walter in time of trouble and
to emerge unscathed, reflecting love and beauty.
Wal-
ter, I commend to your care and keeping, a jewel more
precious than diamonds or rubies—a good woman.
May
your loyalty and devotion ever keep her as such."
The dinner was then served and Edna proved that,
as an after-dinner speaker, she had some
ability.
She
arose, drank a glass of pure water, pouring part of
it
on the floor and said,
^^Mr. Gordon, my vocabulary
is
now destitute of the poetic rhyme that would be neces-
sary to bring into existence words to express to you my
heartfelt thanks for the favor already in hand.
I have
been so over-generous in loving Walter that I feel that
IVe neglected to extend to you the friendship due to a
man of such noble ideals.
As I pour this pure water
back to earth, I am following an ancient custom.
Be-
fore
they
entered upon any
solemn
obligation,
they
washed their hands in pure water, touched
their lips
with pure water, to purify them and to seal the records
of the past.
They poured the pure water back to earth,
in memory of the absent and dead.
I pour this pure
water back to earth that in the presence of the living we
I

--- PAGE 285 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
275
are not forgetting the absent one, and the greatest wish
that I can have for you, Mr. Gordon,
is that at a not
distant date, Walter and I may have the great pleasure
of joining Marie and yourself in an occasion like this.
Words are idle now, they mean but little when the heart
is touched.
I accept your beautiful gift with all grati-
tude.
It
is my prayer that the day may come when
you may have another brooch made with two hearts
entwined, set with a single solitaire, emblematic of your
faith and pure love for Marie.
I pray for you the gifts
of all the Gods, and may your prayers be answered as
the prayers of Pygmalion were whose faith and love
were so strong that the Grecian Gods turned a piece of
cold marble into the living form of a beautiful woman.
But, Robert, when Marie returns to you in all her beauty,
I am sure that you will not act in the way that Pyg-
malion
did, when he
caused
Galatea
to pray
to
the
Grecian Gods to turn her back to cold marble again.
I am
sure,
yes, I know,
that such devotion
as yours
will keep Marie always when she returns to you."
When Edna had
finished,
Walter
arose and
said,
^'Robert, there
is nothing left for me to say, I thank
you."
On the 24:th of June, Walter and Edna were married.
Robert suggested that for their honeymoon they go up
thru Canada and see the beautiful scenery there, then
go down thru California and in the Fall and Winter,
take a second honeymoon trip to Florida and visit Silver
Springs and
Sebring.
Robert's mind
always
drifted
back to the beautiful places where he thought people
in love would find harmony and could commune with
Nature.

--- PAGE 286 of 432 ---

27Q
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXy
I]Sr
the Fall
of
1929,
Eobert and Walter made
a
large amount of money in cotton and wheat.
Rob-
ert was unusually happy.
Altho over three years had
passed without any direct news of Marie he was sure
she was alive;
felt that the time was not long to wait
before she would reappear.
The war clouds had begun
to appear as Robert had predicted.
Spain and Japan
were
threatening
the
United
States.
Controversies
over airplane airports arose.
Japan had forbidden the
United
States
conmaercial
ships
to land on her
soil.
Diplomatic relations were not smoothing affairs out and
Robert knew that war was inevitable.
Spain had made
rapid progress with airplanes and was anxious
to try
her power
against
the United
States.
The
United
States Government was waking up to the fact of their
need of a greater air fleet and the Air Department was
making some great progress.
Robert knew they were
working on
secret plans and knew that he had some-
thing that could be used successfully at the right time.
He was spending money lavishly and working to im-
prove on
his Ezekiel
plane.
He was keeping
every-
thing
secret, sending out plans
to
different manufac-
turers and having the parts made, Walter and himself
secretly putting the machine together.
Robert had made
a large amount of money buying oil stocks.
A big bull

--- PAGE 287 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
277
campaign in
oil stocks had been brought about by the
decreasing
oil supply.
The Government realizing the
increased demand for gasoline on account of the large
amount of
airplanes used, knew that in time of war
their success would depend upon the supply of oil and
gas, so a decree was passed conserving the oil resources.
There was
still a big foreign demand for oil and gaso-
line as war in Europe was
still going on.
Affairs in
England
were
in
a
bad
state
and
revolution
was
threatened.
April, 1930
Japan declared war on the United States and Spain
joined forces with her.
They secured the aid of Mexico
and established an air base there.
The United States
was unprepared for war as they had not kept up the
programme of building a sufficient
air
fleet to protect
the country against invasion by such
a large
fleet
as
commanded by Japan and Spain.
There was a hasty
call by the Government for volunteers to the Aviation
Corps.
Robert Gordon and Walter Kennelworth has-
tened
to
Washington,
tendered
their
services
to
the
Government and joined the Aviation Corps.
They were
made
Lieutenants
and
ordered
immediately
to
San
Antonio, Texas, where the Southern Aviation Division
had its headquarters.
Robert offered the benefit of his
experience to the
officials^ but older and wiser heads
refused to listen to his advice because they thought he
was too young.
At that time they knew nothing about
his long years of secret work and his great inventions,
but they soon learned the value of his
discovery and

--- PAGE 288 of 432 ---

278
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
patent which he had sold to Japan,—the muffler which
made the airplane silent.
The United States Government fearing that Japan
would make the first attack on the Pacific Coast either
around Los Angeles or San Francisco, rushed the battle
fleet to the Pacific.
This proved to be one of the great-
est mistakes
of the war.
As
soon
as the battleships
cruised
into the Pacific, Japan attacked from the air
with their noiseless airplanes and began dropping deadly
bombs from great heights.
The anti-aircraft guns from
the
decks
of the
battleships were
powerless
to
reach
the bombing planes at such great heights.
Defeat was
swift and severe and only a few of the battleships es-
caped complete destruction from the first attack.
The
United
States
Ofiicers had found
that
the
Japanese
planes could
rise more than twice the altitude of the
United States planes.
They knew that Japan had some
invention that was superior to ours which enabled them
to reach such
great
heights
that
their
airships were
practically
immune
from
attack.
This
placed
the
United States at a great disadvantage as they were un-
able to protect the coast cities from being destroyed by
bombs from the Japanese planes.
A council of war was held.
The commanding officers
were called together.
The President hastily summoned
the Cabinet.
There was no minimizing the danger for
everyone knew that the ingenuity of Japan had designed
a superior fighting plane ; that this was to be a war in
the air and that
all old methods and weapons of war
were obsolete ; that the United States must move quick
and fast to prevent destruction of the Pacific Coast cities.

--- PAGE 289 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
279
They
decided
to
confiscate
the
large
manufacturing
plants and
start them on making new inventions and
the manufacture of airplanes.
Central Steel was con-
fiscated;
also Major Motors and Major
Electric
Co,
The war council decided that they should scatter their
air forces from Brownsville, Texas, up to El Paso to
protect the Rio Grande from attack thru Mexico
; that
the battle line should extend up the Colorado River on
across to Portland and Seattle.
The land forces were
all rushed
to
the
Coast, forming
a
battle
line from
Brownsville, Texas, across to the !N"orthwest to Seattle.
It was decided that this line should be held with reserve
forces
to be sent
to support a second
line of defense
running from San Diego up the Coast to Portland, to
protect inland invasion by the foe in case they were suc-
cessful
in capturing any of the
coast
cities.
People
in Los Angeles and San Francisco were in a
state of
turmoil.
Thousands were leaving every day by train
and airplane, going to the Grand Canyon where there
were no cities and they hoped they would be safe from
attacks.
Others went to the central and eastern parts
of the United States because they feared
attacks any
day.
Japan was quick to follow up her victory gained on
the water by attacking Los Angeles from the air in the
middle of May. Here again the great value of the silent
motor was proved and the height to which the Japanese
plane could
rise.
As the enemy stole over the city in
the
silence of the night, not a sound could be heard
from their motors at the great heights which they were
sailing.
Bombs began
to
fall in the business section

--- PAGE 290 of 432 ---

g80
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
and the skyscrapers crumbled to pieces.
Every
street
light was ordered out, leaving the city in total darkness.
The people were aroused at the first noise of exploding
bombs and rushed out to find the city in darkness.
This
caused a panic.
Army officers tried to quiet the people
and keep them in their homes because they realized the
danger
if they rushed out
into the
streets where the
bombs were falling.
Powerful searchlights were sweep-
ing the sky in an effort to locate the invading planes.
Then the giant aircraft guns were trained on the enemy,
but the distance was so great and the planes moving so
swiftly,
that
they were unable
to
do much
damage.
They only succeeded in bringing down three of the bomb-
ing
planes.
The United
States scouting planes were
sent out immediately, followed by the fighting planes
carrying 6-inch guns.
They found that the Japanese
planes were dropping bombs from a height of 60,000
to 80,000 feet and the United States planes were unable
to rise high enough to attack them.
The battle waged thruout the night and when the sun
rose the next morning, the beautiful city of Los Angeles
was in ruins.
Thousands of people had been killed and
the most of the important buildings had been destroyed.
The people of Los Angeles were more excited than they
had ever been during earthquakes.
The destruction and
loss of life were so great that everyone forgot
all about
their property and money and only thought of saving
their lives and protecting their loved ones.
The com-
manding officers held a hasty conference, realizing the
great damage the enemy had done and the small damage
they had been able to
inflict upon them and knowing

--- PAGE 291 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
281
tliat the enemy would follow this attack by more attacks
it was decided that to force the people to remain meant
certain death and a destruction of the balance of the
valuable property, so the only thing to do was to move
the people out
as
fast
as
possible and
surrender the
city.
After
the commanders had
held
this
council,
news of their decision was conveyed to the subordinate
officers.
Lieutenant Gordon's heart was broken when he real-
ized that the
beautiful
city
of Los Angeles must be
either surrendered or destroyed^ yet he knew that unless
the Government quickly made some new and wonderful
inventions, many more defeats were in
store.
When
Captain George Cooper who was in command of Lieu-
tenant Gordon's company, received orders that no move
was to be made and no scouts to be sent out until further
instructions, he called Lieutenants Gordon and Kennel-
worth and conveyed
to them the
orders.
Lieutenant
Gordon was desperate.
He wanted to do something to
help save the
situation, but to
offer his advice to
his
superior officers was futile.
Finally, he decided to dis-
obey orders and go out on a scouting expedition alone
and see what he could find out.
He thought he might
locate
a
Japanese
base,
as
he
believed
they had
a
mother
ship somewhere
near from which
they were
sending out the bombing planes.
He was flying very
low as he crossed the line below San Diego.
All at once
a
Japanese
plane was
coming
straight
toward
him.
He
immediately
turned
his
plane
and
rushed
back
across the line followed closely by the enemy who was
gaining on him rapidly.
Lieutenant Gordon whirled

--- PAGE 292 of 432 ---

282
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
his
plane
around
quickly and
charged
the
Japanese
plane.
The fight lasted for several minutes.
After Lieutenant Gordon had been gone some time
and failed to return Lieutenant Kennelworth knowing
that he had disobeyed
orders and gone
out with
his
plane decided that some harm might have come to him
and that he too must disobey orders and go to his rescue.
He jumped
into
a
fast
plane and
sailed
out,
going
direct toward San Diego.
He soon
sighted
the two
planes in combat and just before he reached the scene,
they went down together.
His heart sank within him.
He knew
it was his old friend Robert and feared for
the
worst.
Landing
along the
side
of the wreck he
found that the Japanese aviator had been killed.
Rob-
ert's leg had been broken ; otherwise he was uninjured.
He
quickly
hauled him
aboard
his own
plane
and
started back for headquarters and was just in time as
other Japanese planes were approaching and followed
him
close
into Los Angeles.
Lieutenant Gordon was
confined to the hospital three or four weeks before his
leg healed and he fully
recovered.
He was given a
severe reprimand for disobeying orders but because he
had
brought down an enemy
plane
the Government
made him a Captain for this bravery and also promoted
Lieutenant Kennelworth,
his chum, to the same rank.
In the meantime, the people had been moved away
from Los Angeles as fast as possible. There had been sev-
eral minor attacks by the enemy and more buildings had
been destroyed and only a few of the enemy's planes
had been brought down.
The situation was desperate.
People w^ere frantic.
The United States was hopelessly

--- PAGE 293 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
283
outnumbered by the Spanish and Japanese air forces.
England was threatening to join forces with Japan and
Spain.
An attack on San Francisco was expected
at
any hour.
People wanted to get away and move east
into the mountains for protection, but the Government
had
notified everyone
to remain.
The
fact that the
foreign planes were noiseless put the United States at
a great disadvantage.
Robert and Walter were using
their
secret
radio
to
communicate
with
each
other.
They had offered this invention to the Government and
it had been accepted.
This was a great help as the Jap-
anese were unable to intercept their code messages or
take any message from the air because there were none.
The United States Army officers knew that they must
fight for time to get some new inventions ready to com-
bat the enemy.
On June
14th, Los Angeles was sur-
rendered.
White flags were run up all over the city as
a signal for the enemy planes to stop attacking.
The
plan was to send no message to the enemy headquarters
in Mexico but to wait and see what action they would
take or what terms they would offer to make.
General
Pearson of the Aviation Corps, General Johnson of the
Cavalry, Admiral Dawson
of
the Navy and General
Marshall of the Infantry held a council to decide the
next and wisest move to make.
A plan was discussed
for
crossing
the Rio Grande
into Mexico with
land
troops and making an attempt
to capture the supply
base of the enemy.
General Pearson said that the days
of
old
tactics and war had changed,
that the enemy
evidently intended to make this a war in the air and
that they would attack troops from the
air.
To send

--- PAGE 294 of 432 ---

284
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
an army into the mountains of Mexico would not only
mean the loss of thousands of lives, which would prove
useless, but that part of the air force would have to be
sent
into Mexico to protect the army and this would
weaken the coast patrol and give the enemy a chance to
make
an
air
attack on
other
coast
cities.
Admiral
Dawson
said
that
in
the weakened
condition
of
the
I^avy, since the disaster from the first attack by the Jap-
anese planes,
it would be foolhardy to attempt any ag-
gressive campaign by the Navy, that what ships they had
were now
scattered
along the
Southern,
Eastern and
Western shores for protection and to concentrate them
at one point would only weaken other joints from which
they would have to be withdrawn.
General Marshall
was of the opinion that the best plan was not to attack,
but let the enemy make the first move every time and
try to
find some way to
protect the
coast
cities, that
what we needed was time to get better equipped with
sufficient airplanes to cope with the enemy's superior air
force.
So
it was finally decided that the wisest course
to pursue was a waiting attitude.
There was a panic in Wall Street when the news came
of the surrender of Los Angeles.
Edna had been left
in charge of the office in New York and thru the secret
Pocket Radio, kept in communication with Waltetr and
Robert.
She was conducting a campaign in the stock
market for them and had made a fortune on the short
side of the market.
Business was bad, and the whole
country was in a state of turmoil.
After the white flags were floated over the rains of
Los
Angeles,
days went by and there were no more

--- PAGE 295 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
ftS9
attacks by the enemy, nor was any word received from
enemy
headquarters.
The
American
patrol
planes
around Los Angeles
reported
occasionally
seeing the
enemy planes scouting over the city
at great heights,
evidently taking observation as to what was going on.
This mysterious action on the part of the enemy was a
source of worry to the commanding officers of the United
States.
The people all over the country were in a state
of
anxiety, wondering where the enemy would strike
next.
The Infantry and Cavalry were restlessly wait-
ing orders to go into action along the Rio Grande.
On the night of August 1st, the enemy planes crossed
the Rio Grande and
dropped bombs
all
along from
Brownsville to El Paso, destroying property and killing
more than a hundred thousand men among the Infantry
and Cavalry.
The enemy planes were again flying very
high.
The
anti-craft
guns
and
the
attack
by
our
planes did very little damage, only bringing down ^\q
of the enemy planes along the entire lines, while more
than 200 of the American airplanes were destroyed by
bombs dropping on them from
above.
General Mar-
shall in his report to General Pearson next day said:
"Hell turned loose in the sky last night from Brownsville
to El Paso.
Our loss was terrific and the enemy's loss
was very small.
There
is but one hope and that
is to
get more and better airplanes. We must get planes that
will rise to a height where they can reach the enemy
and make the fight in the air."
Captain Robert Gordon was
still stationed near Loi
Angeles and when news came of the terrible loss of life
along the Rio Grande, his mind turned to "Marie the

--- PAGE 296 of 432 ---

286
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Angel of Mercy,"—^his great plane secretly stored away
in the Adirondack Mountains for use in just such an
emergency as this. He knew what the ^^Demon of Death''
could do and
the
sleeping
gas
invented by
Captain
Kennelworth.
He thought of going to General Pearson,
telling him of his discoveries and offering them to the
United
States
to
put
into
immediate
use,
but
after
meditating over the matter decided that they would only
call him a fool and refuse to listen to him as they had
before, because he was too young.
However, he asked
General Pearson for orders to permit him to go on a
scouting expedition over Mexico and up and down the
Rio Grande to see if he could learn anything of value.
On the morning of August 3rd, Captain Robert Gor-
don traveled across Arizona and ISTew Mexico and as he
neared El Paso saw the largest airship that he had ever
seen before slowly drifting over El Paso.
It was a giant
plane and Robert knew that it was either a mother ship
or one of the enemy's great bombing planes which had
been so high that he had never been able to see them
before.
He began circling it at a great distance, watch-
ing to see what this monster of the air was going to do.
Finally,
it slowed down and came to a complete stand-
still.
He saw that it could anchor in the air and knew
that the enemy had another discovery that would beat
what the Americans had.
Waiting for awhile, he saw
what seemed to be an observation platform emerge from
the side of the plane.
An
officer appeared on
it with
some instruments.
Captain Gordon thought that they
were either taking photographs or making observations
over El Paso for some purpose.
Fortunately, he had
started out on a bombing plane and had plenty of bombs

--- PAGE 297 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
287
on board.
Decided that lie had hut one life to give for
his country and that he would rise as high as he could,
sail
swiftly
over
this
monster
and
drop
his
bombs.
When he got as close over
it as he could gauge, he re-
leased the automatic control and started dropping bombs
one
after
another.
The
first bomb made a
hit and
struck the ship near the middle, which was lucky, tear-
ing a terrific hole in it.
He knew from the way it acted
that
it was badly disabled.
Now was the time to get
in his effective work.
Dropping lower, he let go more
bombs, this time striking the giant ship both in the front
and rear.
It started to fall rapidly and he followed
it
down and got close enough to see that there were
still
men on board alive so he let go more bombs and in a
few minutes there was nothing but a wreck of the great-
est dreadnought of death which had ever floated over
American soil.
Before venturing to land Captain Gordon ascended to
a great height, circled the sky to see if there were any
more enemy ships in sight which might endanger his
life.
Finding the
air
clear, he immediately radioed
the news with his Pocket-Radio to Captain Kennelworth
who was then stationed at San Diego.
The news was
quickly flashed to General Pearson's headquarters.
On
examination they found that the giant ship was a mother
ship more than 600
feet
long,
bearing
the name
of
^^Tokyo J-1'' and that
it carried 25 bombing planes cf
the
most
modern
type
with
collapsible
wings
and
equipped
with
powerful
searchlights
carrying bombs
and poisonous gases.
It was estimated that more than
100 officers and aviators were aboard the airship when
it
fell.
All were
killed but
two.
They were badly

--- PAGE 298 of 432 ---

«88
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
wounded with broken limbs and were taken prisoners.
There were found to be three of the enemy's planes that
were not damaged badly.
Captain Gordon and Cap-
tain Kennelworth tested these planes
after they were
put back in working order and found that they were
high altitude planes and could rise higher than any of
the planes used by the United States.
This was a great
victory because it would enable the American inventors
to find out how these planes were built and they could
also be used against the enemy.
iN'ews of this great victory was sent to the President
of the United States.
He ordered General Pearson to
decorate Captain Gordon with the Cross
of Aviation
and convey to him the gratitude of the people of the
United States and the President's sincere personal ap-
preciation.
The afternoon newspapers
in every large
city
in
the
United
States
carried
in
big
headlines
"GIANT MOTHER SHIP CAPTURED BY DAR-
IJSFG YOUJ^G AVIATOR,
CAPTAi:tT ROBERT
GORDO]^."
The
people thruout
the United
States
breathed a sigh of relief;
felt that the tide was at last
turning and that now some way would be found to de-
stroy more of the enemy's giant ships.
When General Pearson called Captain Gordon before
him, he was very modest and meek because he remem-
bered the severe reprimand before when he disobeyed
orders and brought down the Japanes plane near San
Diego.
This time he had
acted on
instnictions from
General Pearson and was very happy to have rendered
a great service to his country.
As the General read the
message from the President, tears came
into his eyes.
He thanked his commanding
officer and
said
that he

--- PAGE 299 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
^89
hoped he might have many more opportunities to render
service
to
his
beloved
country.
At
that
time
his
thoughts turned to Marie and he wondered where she
might be and if she knew what was happening.
He was
especially happy because he had brought this enemy ship
down in the State in which he was born and that State
of which he was very proud.
Captain Kennelworth
came to congratulate him and said :
^^Robert, old pal, I
am very proud
of you and your great
achievement.
The Lone Star State of Texas which was distinguished
by its brave sons at the Battle of the Alamo, has again
been
distinguished by one
of her
favorite
sons,
and
Mexico as well as Spain and Japan will be made to real-
ize that the Texans never surrender."
After the night attack and the great destruction along
the Rio Grande, the American forces waited anxiously
and in peril for another attack.
Days went by with-
out any sign from the enemy.
Los Angeles had not
been molested and the mystery was deepening as to what
were the enemy's plans and the next move they would
make.
General Pearson had ordered one of the planes
from the "Tokyo J-1" sent to the Major Electric Com-
pany in the East where they could experiment with
it
and make some planes like
it or better ones.
He gave
one of the planes to Captain Gordon and the other to
Captain Kennelworth to be put into service.
Captain
Gordon asked that they be permitted to go into Mexico,
locate the enemy's headquarters and try to destroy more
of their ships, but the General refused to grant
this
request, saying that he would not risk the lives of such
valuable men or risk losing the ships which might prove
very valuable when the enemy again made an attack.

--- PAGE 300 of 432 ---

^90
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXYI
September, 1930
AFTER
long
days
of
anxious
waiting,
with
the
JTjl^
people nervous and excited, came
tlie
attack on
San Francisco. The enemy planes
attacked from the
West,
the South and
the
E'orth,
slipping
in
silently
in large numhers.
Poisoned gas was turned loose, hombs
were dropped all over the city and most of the important
business
and
Government
buildings
were
destroyed.
The
destruction was
the
greatest
in
history, much
greater than the earthquake in 1906.
Loss of life was
terrific.
General Pearson ordered Captain Gordon and
Kennelworth to lead the defense of the city, using the
Japanese planes which had been taken from the wreck
of the "Tokyo J-1."
As soon as they got in high alti-
tude over San Francisco, they could see that this was a
gigantic attack.
Thousands of airplanes were circling
the air from every direction.
It was evident that the
enemy intended to destroy San Francisco very quickly.
Captain Gordon and Captain Kennelworth were
able
to keep
in communication thru
their Pocket
Radio.
They agreed that one of them should attack the enemy
planes approaching from the ISTorth and the other, the
planes approaching from the South and West, going as
high
as they could and
if possible
getting above
the
enemy planes and dropping bombs
on
them.
When

--- PAGE 301 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
291
Captain Gordon got high in the
air, he saw
another
mother ship anchored and with the smaller planes tak-
ing off from
it.
He sailed over and let loose his bomhs
and destroyed this ship.
Other ships were coming from
every direction by the thousands.
He sailed over them
letting loose his bombs cautiously.
Captain Kennelworth also encountered planes by the
thousands coming across from the West and succeeded
in bringing down numbers of them.
Finally, the enemy
planes turned on him and when he saw
that
escape
seemed almost impossible, decided to try to race back
to headquarters.
The enemy planes were firing on him.
One wing of his plane was damaged, then a propeller
was broken and as his plane was crashing to the earth,
he felt that he was sure to lose his life ; tried to steer
the best he could and finally, seeing that he was going
to land on a smooth spot where there were no trees or
buildings, he crawled out on top of one of the wings.
A few minutes after the crash he regained conscious-
ness, finding himself uninjured with only a few minor
scratches.
Fortunately he was near one of the army
bases and made his way quickly there.
He could see
to the West that San Francisco was in flames and knew
that the destruction was complete.
His
first thought
was what had happened to his old pal, Robert Gordon.
Feeling in his pocket and finding his radio safe, he sent
the distress signal which they had always used, asking
"Are you alive and where are you ?"
Minutes went by
and no reply.
He was heartsick and feared that Robert
had
lost his
life.
He slowly made his way to head-
quarters and reported what had happened.

--- PAGE 302 of 432 ---

292
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Captain Gordon finally exhausted his hombs, but he
estimated that he had brought down
several hundred
of the enemy planes because he had sailed over them
where they were flying by the hundreds in wedge for-
mations, each division being followed by a giant supply
ship which could anchor high up in the air and supply
more bombs when the bombing planes exhausted their
supply and returned for more.
Robert thought, "this is
just what our Government needs.
If there were only a
supply ship in the air now where I could go and get
more bombs, I could bring down hundreds more of the
enemy's planes."
He decided to make his way back to
the base or headquarters as he was powerless without
bombs, but his decision was too late.
The enemy planes
had located him and were coming straight toward him.
He speeded up and tried to make his way to safety,
fearing that any minute the enemy would fire on him or
drop a bomb on his plane, but the Japanese had
dis-
covered that he was flying one of their own planes and
they thought he was one of their own aviators and had
no
intention
of harming him.
When they
got
close
enough to see that the plane was piloted by an American
aviator,
they
flew
close
beside him,
signaled him
to
follow them, one plane leading and two others falling
in beside him.
There was nothing else to do and he was
glad of a chance to save his life.
They led him up, up,
up, thousands of feet in the air, finally reached a giant
plane
anchored,
where
they
landed,
taking
Captain
Gordon a prisoner.
As soon as they had landed with him, his mind went
back to the days of his youth, when he had built his

--- PAGE 303 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM
194^0
293
first bicycle to ride on the water, and when he had read
the Bible and talked about the wars to come and made
his plans for the great airship.
He recalled the dream
his mother had which greatly disturbed her.
She told
him she dreamed that she saw San Francisco destroyed
by some terrible machine and that one of her sons had
nearly lost his life there.
He thought of how his mother
had told him about his oldest brother losing his life in
the San Francisco earthquake and he wondered if now
he was to lose his life there, because he
felt that the
Japs were very treacherous and would probably
not
keep him a prisoner but would take his life.
He prayed
for his dear old mother and prayed for Marie that she
might be safe and her life be spared, no matter what
his fate might be.
Through
all
this
excitement,
for the
first time he
thought
of his Pocket-Radio.
Before he could get
it
out of his pocket, he received the S. O.
S. signal from
Walter and answered, telling him what had happened
and where he was.
Ever since the first battle of Los Angeles, the United
States
officers had
felt
certain
that an
attack would
come upon San Francisco and had prepared for
it the
best way
possible.
They had
concentrated
a greater
portion of their
best airplanes there and had thrown
them into the fight by the thousands and they had gone
down in large numbers, not only being outnumbered by
the enemy planes but being unable to follow the enemy
planes high enough
to
destroy them.
When
reports
were made
the
following morning,
more
than
three
thousand
of
this
country's
airplanes
had
been
lost.

--- PAGE 304 of 432 ---

294
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
The loss of life in San Francisco was appalling.
Almost
half of the population had been wiped
out.
Most of
the
valuable
buildings had been
destroyed.
All
the
ships anchored in the harbor were blown to pieces.
A
poisonous gas which American chemists had never seen
or heard of before had been distributed
all over San
Francisco and the people who were left were sick and
dying by the thousands.
The waters in the bay had
been poisoned and the fish were dying from this deadly
gas.
It was indeed a time of trouble such as the world
has never known, as spoken of by St. John in the Book
of Revelation.
The capture of Captain Gordon and the loss of both
of
the
Japanese
airplanes which had
been
captured
at the destruction of the "Tokyo J-1" was a dishearten-
ing blow, because Captain Kennelworth had reported
how effectively he had worked over the enemy planes
and how many he had
destroyed.
He was sure that
Captain Gordon had destroyed many of their planes.
When a survey was made of the city
it was found that
several hundred of the enemy's planes had been brought
down.
Most of this was attributed to the work done
by
Captain Gordon and Kennelworth with
the high
altitude foreign planes.
When all reports were in, the
commanders of the United
States armies got together
for a conference.
This
disaster in such a short time
was bewildering and
it required quick decision
as
to
the next move.
They were at a loss to figure out what
the
enemy^s
next move would
be,
remembering
that
after Los Angeles had been surrendered and the white
flag had
floated over
it,
it had never been
molested.

--- PAGE 305 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
295
Knowing that another attack would finish the remains
of San
Francisco,
they decided
to surrender
it,
and
again the white flag was raised over
all the remaining
buildings.
When General Pearson saw these instruc-
tions being carried out, he was overcome with emotion.
Tears were flowing down his cheeks and he exclaimed
;
*^My God, my God, is the land of liberty to be destroyed ?
Is there no way to prevent this deadly destruction ?''
As soon as the Japanese had captured Captain Gor-
don they knew who he was.
He was the man who had
sold them the great silent muffler.
They brought him
to headquarters in Mexico where he was questioned as
to what other inventions he had.
He told them that
the only invention he had of value was the secret radio,
with which he could send communications without any
sound in the air and without anyone intercepting the
messages, but made no mention of the other discoveries
that he had which he knew could be used in time of
emergency and of which he had never told the United
States
Government
officials.
The
Japanese
offered
Robert his freedom and a large amount
of money
if
he would sell them this invention.
After communicat-
ing secretly and silently wdth Walter, Robert had him
tell the commanding General about the proposition the
Japanese had offered him and asked for instructions as
to what he should do.
Their reply was to remain pris-
oner and not give up any of his secrets to the enemy,
because the situation was bad enough at the best.
But
Robert knew that his services would be of greater value
to his Government and that
it was bad judgment for
him to remain a prisoner.
He felt that he could make

--- PAGE 306 of 432 ---

296
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
another
invention
for
communications
which
would
outwit the Japs, so he decided on his own responsibility
to give up the secret radio, and after they tested it, they
gave him his freedom and conveyed him safely out of
the enemy lines.
Robert returned to headquarters near
San Francisco and reported to Colonel Davis just what
he had done.
He was immediately sent before General
Pearson who was then in command of the United States
Air
forces.
General Pearson
after hearing the story
and considering Robert's splendid record, decided that
clemency should be extended to him but, before doing so,
decided
to
communicate
with
the
President
of
the
United States and await his decision and instructions.
A meeting of the Cabinet was called and they voted that
Captain Gordon was a traitor to his country, but decided
that he should not be court-martialed and shot, but dis-
honored.
Orders were sent that
his uniform be torn
from him and that he be held a prisoner.
This was the
greatest blow to Robert that had ever befallen him since
the loss of Marie, but he had faith in God.
He knew
that he had done right and what was for the best, just
as the Creator of the universe does all things well and
for the
best.
He read his Bible that night while in
prison and was consoled by reading Job, where he said,
"Lord, Lord, I'll wait until my change comes."
Robert
knew that the time would come when he would be able
to demonstrate to his Government that his judgment was
right and that he was acting for the best.
His heart
and soul were with his country and he would sacrifice
time and money to be prepared to protect his Govern-
ment.
He asked to be allowed to have a conference with

--- PAGE 307 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
297
Walter, which was granted.
Told Walter to say nothing
about
his
sleeping
gas
discovery
or
the
^'Demon
of
Death/'—the
great
light
ray
destroyer
which
they
could use, and to tell nothing of the great ship *'Marie
the Angel of Mercy," which they had safely stored away
in the Adirondack Mountains.
That when the Govern-
ment came to realize the need of great help and faced
defeat, he would then demonstrate the inventions that
he had to save the country.
General Pearson was very much interested in Gor-
don's case.
He remembered the great feat of bringing
down the ^'Tokyo J-1" and believed that Robert was a
genius and a valuable man to the Government.
If the
officials had listened to Robert and taken the discovery
he had offered them, probably the defeat in San Fran-
cisco would never have happened.
He did not blame
Robert
for
selling
his
invention
to
Japan
in
peace
time, nor did he condemn him
for turning over
his
secret Pocket Radio to the Japanese to secure his free-
dom.
Believed he was loyal to his country and acted
as he thought
best and had not done
it
for a
selfish
motive.
The General decided
to
visit Robert
at
the
prison.
After holding a conference with him, ordered
him removed and brought
to headquarters where he
could keep him under his personal supervision.
Robert
confided to General Pearson that if he could secure his
release, and
let him return to his laboratory in
ISTew
York, he could very quickly complete another inven-
tion to enable the United States forces to communicate
secret
orders from
place
to
place,
which
the enemy
could not understand or use.
He told him that he had

--- PAGE 308 of 432 ---

898
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
an invention partly completed which when placed a cer-
tain distance from an airplane would prevent any com-
munication by
his
secret
radio and that with
this
it
would make the secret radio which he turned over to
Japan,
absolutely
useless.
General Pearson
believed
his story and had faith in him so communicated with
the President of the United
States and obtained per-
mission to send Robert Gordon to his ISTew York labora-
tory.
The General realized that the situation was much
worse than the newspapers were letting the public know.
The Government was suppressing their weakened con-
dition.
General Pearson knew
that with help from
England or any other foreign country,
it would be easy
for the enemy to take New Orleans, Chicago and then
sweep down on Washington and IsTew York.
The lib-
erty of the United States now hung in a balance and
unless
something was
done,
and
done
quickly,
their
cause would be lost.
General Pearson wrote to the President that
there
was no denying the fact that the situation was critical
and that the enemy had something up their sleeve and
that unless every effort was made to forestall their move,
he feared a repetition of the terrible disaster
at San
Erancisco.
He sent the record of Robert Gordon.
Said
that while he was a young man, he was one of the bravest
aviators that he had ever known ; that he was not only
bright but brilliant. He believed he was a genius.
That
he had had a long talk with him and that Gordon had
asked
to be
released and permitted
to
return
to
his
laboratory
in
ISTew York where he believed he could
complete a valuable invention which would prove a great

--- PAGE 309 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
299
help to the country.
The General recommended
that
Gordon he
released and permitted
to
return
to 'New
York and given a chance.
Said that this was the age
of the young men because they were progressive and
up to the times.
The President wrote General Pearson to use his own
judgment and send Gordon to New York if he thought
best.
General Pearson gave orders that Robert Gordon
be brought to him.
He communicated the good news,
gave him a passport and told him to proceed immedi-
ately to New York and work just as rapidly as possible
to perfect any kind of invention that would help defeat
the enemy's plans.

--- PAGE 310 of 432 ---

300
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXVII
WHEN Robert arrived in "New York, Edna told
him
about
the
great
fortune which
she
had
made on the short side of the market and how when
she received the good news by secret radio of his cap-
ture of the
^^Tokyo J-1" she calculated that as soon as
it was generally known, it would restore confidence and
stocks would have a big rally.
She hastily covered all
the short contracts and bought stocks for long account.
The following
afternoon when
the
big
headlines
an-
nounced the capture of the Tokyo, traders all rushed to
buy and the market advanced rapidly.
She said "Mr.
Gordon, do you know the market is following the fore-
cast which you mapped out
in 1927 ?"
He
said, "I
have been so worried over the war and my dishonor that
I haven't had time to think about making money.
If
General Pearson hadn't proved to be a good friend, I
would
still be in prison.
'Now I must use some of my
inventions to help my country and prove to them that
I did act for the best and that I am loyal."
Edna asked
if he thought there was any hope of the terrible war
ending soon.
"No," he replied,
"it will get worse in
1931 when many other nations
will
join
against
us.
The end will not come until the Summer or Fall of
1932."
"That
is dreadful," she said,
"if
it lasts that
long, they will destroy every large city in the United
States unless something is done to beat them."

--- PAGE 311 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
301
In the latter part of October, 1930, Robert returned
to Denver, Colorado, where General Pearson had moved
the aviation headquarters, and was moving heaven and
earth to prevent the advance of the enemy toward the
East.
Many people on the coast had become frightened
and moved to Denver for protection.
Robert brought
the new invention which he called the ^'Radio Annuli-
fier."
The Spaniards and Japanese were making use
of Robert's
secret
radio, which was one of the most
valuable
discoveries up to that time.
The Annulifier
was now placed on scouting airplanes and they were
Bent out.
They found that
it would work a distance of
several hundred
miles.
This disorganized the enemy
forces because they did not understand what had gone
wrong with the secret mechanism of the Pocket-Radio
with which they were able to transmit orders without
sound or fear of detection.
They had to resort to the
old method of using radios and wireless.
Robert had
invented a new machine to record either sound or com-
munications by light waves.
He soon secured the plans
of the enemy and reported to General Pearson, who was
still in command for the Aviation Corps, that the enemy
was planning to attack from the Gulf of Mexico, follow
up the Mississippi River, take New Orleans and at the
same time make a joint attack across the Great Lakes,
cutting off the Government's forces and the wing which
:was holding across from Denver, Colorado to Canada on
the North and the border of Texas on the Southwestern
side.
When General Pearson received this disappoint-
ing news, he realized that the situation was desperate.
He communicated with the President
of the United

--- PAGE 312 of 432 ---

302
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
States, who immediately
called the Cabinet
together.
All the Army OflBcers were called in conference to dis-
cuss plans
as to the
best thing to do to
forestall the
attack.
They were forced to admit the painful truth
that
the
fleet
of
airplanes
was
not
sufficient
to
withdraw
enough
forces
from
the
Western
line
to
send to the ISTorth and South, to protect Chicago and
the Mississippi
valley.
General Pearson made plain
to the War
Council
the
great
value
of Kobert Gor-
don
and
suggested
that
he
be
restored
to
hfs
former rank
for what
he had
already
done.
They
agreed with him and Robert Gordon was made Colonel
in the early part of N'ovember, 1930.
Walter Kennel-
worth, for his great services in working with Robert,
was also promoted to Colonel.
When Colonel Gordon informed General Pearson that
Mrs. Kennelworth was his sole secret aid in completing
the Annulifier which had helped him to get the enemy's
plans,
this news was conveyed by the General
to the
President of the United States who ordered Mrs. Ken-
nelworth
to
report
immediately
at
headquarters
in
Washington.
The
President
thanked
her
personally
for the great service she had rendered the country and
told her that she was the greatest woman since Molly
Pitcher, who had
taken
her
husband's
place
at
the
cannon.
He conferred upon her the
title of Captain
of Inventions and ordered her to return to her labora-
tories in l^ew York and continue her
scientific work.
This brought
great
rejoicing
to
Colonel Gordon and
Colonel Kennelworth and they redoubled their
efforts
to do everything to help save the country, but they were

--- PAGE 313 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
803
not in the War Council and had nothing to say in regard
to the plans of protection or attack.
Complications came thick and
fast, the enemy was
landing more planes in Mexico, bringing up reinforce-
ments.
They moved
part
of
their army from
San
Francisco north, and in December, 1930, after a short
engagement, captured Seattle and Portland.
The War
Council knew that this left the enemy in command of
the entire Pacific Coast as most all of the smaller towns
had
been abandoned
because
they
feared
destruction
and the next
attack would probably be either on the
South or the East.
They were satisfied that they would
probably
attack from the Gulf of Mexico and try to
get a good hold on the Southeastern part of the United
States and, if successful, would then attack from Canada
and the Great Lakes.
The United States Government
was making airplanes as fast as possible, but they were
BO far behind and lacked trained men
to man them,
that the situation was very tense and the Government
officials freely expressed their anxiety.
People in the
East were excited and scared.
They feared an attack
upon the
defenseless
cities
at any time and that the
destruction
of Los
Angelss, San
Francisco,
Portland
and Seattle might be repeated.
The crushing blows that
the Government had received in the loss of the Pacific
Coast had weakened the morale of the people and they
had lost confidence in the Government and
its officials.
The fact that the enemy had made no attempt to
set
a fixed ransom on any of the cities captured showed that
they were looking for something bigger before trying
to enforce their demands upon the United States.
The

--- PAGE 314 of 432 ---

504
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
GoTemment officials knew that
tlie Japanese would de-
mand California or the greater part of the Pacific Coast
territory.
They were hoping that further attacks could
be staved
off until they were better prepared to meet
theuL
Army officials, as usual, thought they were han-
dling everything for the best and paid no attention to
the counsel of men who might be able to help.
Colonel Kennelworth confided
to some of the Gen-
erals that Colonel Gordon and himself had some great
discoveries which, when and
if completed would beat
the enemy, but they paid
little attention to his
state-
ments, and after Walter and Robert had a conference,
they decided to keep quiet and say nothing further about
them until the time when the Government was in des-
peration and would listen to reason.
1931
After months of waiting and only a few scouting ex-
peditions on the part of the enemy,
a sudden
attack
occurred in March. A large fleet of airplanes sailed up
the Mississippi River and attacked New Orleans.
De-
struction was
swift
and
severe.
The United
States
started
to
withdraw
forces from
across
the
Central
part
and
from
Texas,
but
they
soon
realized
that
somewhere
out
in
the
Atlantic
Ocean
or
in
the
Gulf
of Mexico,
there was
a
secret
base
of supplies
and they suspected that England had
already joined
forces
with
the
enemy.
The
enemy's
planes
were
so superior, their poisonous gas and bombs so effective
that New Orleans
fell within three days.
The alarm
spread so fast over the United States that people were

--- PAGE 315 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
805
panic-stricken.
There was
a
panic
in Wall
Street.
Stocks crashed rapidly and Captain Edna Kennelworth
was again on the short side and had made a large amount
of money for the firm of Gordon & Kennelworth.
After the terrible destruction of ISTew Orleans, it was
again decided to
float the white flag over the
city,
as
had been done in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland
and Seattle.
People were badly frightened ; were leav-
ing their homes and property and going in every direc-
tion, not knowing which was the best way to go to save
their
lives.
Many
of
the
old
darkies
went
to
the
swamps, hid out until they were starving to death, feel-
ing that they were safer away from any of the
cities
or buildings.
The most mystifying thing to the Gov-
ernment
officials was
that up to
this time when the
enemy had succeeded
in
destroying a
city, they had
never returned
or attempted to do any more damage
after the white flag floated over it.
They knew that the
enemy had several bases in Mexico and were at a loss
to understand why more attacks had not been made on
the towns along the border of Texas ; but now that they
had started up the Mississippi River,
it was plain that
they were bent on destroying only the largest cities in
the country and that, eventually, they would make de-
mands for large amounts of indemnity and territory.
Why no demands had been made up to this time and
why the enemy had not tried to land troops and take
charge was hard to understand.
The wiser heads among
the Government officials felt that the enemy wanted to
sufficiently frighten the people all over the United States
and destroy enough life and property that when they

--- PAGE 316 of 432 ---

306
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
did make a demand, that no matter how unreasonable,
the United
States would be forced to
accept.
It was
thought that there was some secret treaty between Spain,
Japan, Mexico and other foreign
countries, and
that
they had started their campaign in the South and would
later attack the Eastern Coast because they knew that
they would get help from other countries
if
it was re-
quired.
After the fall of 'New Orleans, the enemy continued
their march up
the
Mississippi
valley.
One by
one
important
cities were
bombed.
^Natchez,
Vicksburg,
then Memphis
fell under the fire of the enemy.
The
devastation was
the
greatest
ever known.
]^ot
only
were the buildings
destroyed by bombs,
but
fire and
poisoned gases were used.
Hundreds of thousands of
people
lost their
lives.
People were
so
terrified that
they wanted to flee to the mountains and
forests and
get away from all the towns.
The march up the Missis-
sippi
thus
far had
cost
the Government
the
loss
of
thousands of their best airplanes.
The enemy^s loss was
very small.
On account of flying at such great heights,
it was hard to reach them with the anti-aircraft guns
or the army planes.
The United States army officers knew that the next
objective would be St. Louis, and that if St. Louis were
captured, they would probably attack Chicago, close the
lines, prepare to
attack the Eastern Coast and try to
take Washington and New York.
Colonel Gordon and
Colonel Kennelworth were doing great work, but were
fighting against terrific odds.
They had to take orders
from their superior
officers, and were not able to
act

--- PAGE 317 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
307
on their own initiative.
Colonel Gordon was permitted
to sit in at a conference of tbe War Council in April,
1931, but after listening to his plans, they refused to
accept them;
at the same time they knew the country
needed help because further attacks were imminent, and
the enemy was pushing on to victory and gaining more
help all the time.
Some of Colonel Gordon's plans were
to ask France to come to our aid in view of the fact
they had helped us in the Revolution of 1812 and that
we had gone to their rescue in the Great War in 1917
showing our appreciation for the services rendered by
Lafayette.
He also wanted to ask Canada to join us
and protect the J^orthern border of the United States.
After the
first
battle of
INTew
Orleans,
the United
States transferred
all the planes they could spare for
patrol
of the Eastern and Southern
coasts along the
Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico.
Commercial and pas-
senger
airplanes
were
crossing
daily
to
and
from
Europe.
One foggy night in the month of April, scout-
ing planes flying as high as they could, sighted a large
fleet
of
airships
flying
toward
Savannah,
Georgia.
They decided that they were enemy planes making for
Savannah, to attack
it.
Commander Rooker in charge
ordered
his company
to
sail
over
the
fleet and
start
dropping
bombs.
They
were
quickly
destroyed,
all
falling into the ocean.
When our planes descended to
see how many had been destroyed and what country they
were from, they found that they were not enemy planes
at all, but were commercial planes from England, Ger-
many,
Austria and
Italy.
This
complicated
matters
more and diplomatic communications failed to smooth

--- PAGE 318 of 432 ---

308
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
out
tlie
difficulties.
England refused to accept an ex-
planation or apology and
all the other countries took
sides with her.
Our Cabinet officers held a conference.
They
decided
that England and the
other
countries,
knowing our weakened condition, had intended to join
the enemy
all
along and were
only waiting
for an
excuse, but they now knew that with all these countries
against them, without some aid or new discovery, the
cause was lost.
General Pearson said "Colonel Gordon
was right.
We should have asked the help of France
and Canada long before this.
We must now seek aid
from any country that
is friendly to us.
We went to
the rescue of the Allies in the darkest days of the World
War and surely some of them will stand by us in this,
our greatest hour of need."
In May, 1931, England, Germany, Italy and Austria
joined forces against the United States.
The wealth of
the United States had caused so much jealousy that
it
now began to look as tho Uncle Sam were a lone eagle
against the world.
England began to land her forces
and establish a base in Canada, and the War Council,
knowing that England would attack the Eastern Coast,
made
all preparations
to try to protect the Northern
border and the Eastern Coast, withdrawing forces from
other strategic points to try to protect the North and
the Eastern part of the United States.
In the
latter part
of the month, England and the
other
allied enemy
forces
sailed
across
the
Atlantic,
bringing their
entire
fleets on the water
escorted by
thousands of modem airplanes.
They had been prepar-
ing
for war
for
years;
had
built
fast
hydroplanes

--- PAGE 319 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
809
which
could
travel on the water
at more
than
150
miles an
hour.
When
this
fleet
arrived
off
the At-
lantic
Coast,
the
United
States
air
patrol
attacked
them,
hut
were
so
far
outnumbered
that
it
was
futile.
The
patrol
was
quickly
destroyed.
All
of
the United States commercial planes were stopped from
carrying mail, passengers or express across the Atlantic.
The enemies were now in position to blockade the United
States on every side.
The Japanese, Spanish and Mexi-
can planes were patrolling the Gulf of Mexico and the
Pacific Coast.
We were now in a worse position than
the Allies were in 1917 when they were fighting with
their backs to the wall and the United States went to
their
rescue.
The War
Council knew
that England
would now close the l^orthem border, shut us off from
Canada and would probably attack all along the border
sooner or later.
The United States had concentrated all the available
forces which could possibly be spared to try and fore-
stall attacks upon Chicago and the Central part of the
country.
While an attack was hourly expected in
St.
Louis, part of the English, German and Italian battle-
ships, under the protection of their air fleet, moved to
the mouth of the Mississippi River. The airplanes, num-
bering thousands, led the advance up the river, followed
by the hydroplanes and
battleships.
The
planes
de-
stroyed
cities and
drove
the
people away
in
terror.
When this march started, the United States War Coun-
cil decided to move the Infantry and Artillery as fast
as possible to try and protect the
territory along the
Mississippi
and
prevent
the
advance
up
thru
the

--- PAGE 320 of 432 ---

310
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Central and IN'ortliem parts of the United States.
The
enemies took charge of New Orleans and placed their
officers in control of the city.
Fierce fighting continued
all the way up the river.
The United States was hope-
lessly outnumbered and the loss of men and planes was
enormous.
It began to look as
if resistance was folly.
It was plain that this was a move to take charge of our
territory and showed that Japan,
Spain, and Mexico
had only been waiting for the time when England and
other countries would join them to
start taking over
captured
cities.
The move up the Mississippi was swift.
Every town
was taken over and placed under the control of English
officers.
Finally, when Cairo, Illinois, was reached the
United States had perfected a new invention for drop-
ping chemicals from airplanes into the water and then
using an electric current from an airplane to discharge
the chemical hundreds of miles away.
When the enemy advanced and the airplane attack
was on
at
Cairo, the
inhabitants had been moved
to
Louisville and Cincinnati and there was no attempt to
try to save the
city.
The plan was to
let the enemy
hydroplanes
and
battleships move up
the
river
and
destroy them by the powerful
electric charge
in
the
water.
When they had completed great destruction in
Cairo, the hydroplanes and light battle cruisers which
followed up the advance, taking charge of cities, moved
up
to the mouth of the Ohio to land and take charge
of Cairo.
Colonel Walter Kennelworth had been sent to Cairo
with
a new plane which had been completed by
the
(

--- PAGE 321 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
Sll
Major Electric Co.
This plane was equipped with an
electric machine which could take the electric current
from the air, charge into the water, and destroy battle-
ships for miles in every direction.
He was circling the
sky at a high altitude and watching for an opportunity.
Finally, seeing the airplanes receding from Cairo when
they thought
they had
completed the
destruction,
he
pressed a button and turned loose the powerful electric
ray.
In less than a minute every cruiser and hydro-
plane was blown to pieces or burnt up by the electric
current.
The enemy
lost
every man on board
their
ships.
While
Cairo had been
almost
completely
de-
stroyed,
this was the
first real victory for the United
States since Colonel Gordon destroyed the ^^Tokyo J-1."
The news was flashed
all over the United
States and
people on the Eastern Coast, from Boston to Miami,
who feared destruction at any minute, breathed a sigh
of relief and hoped that this would turn the tide.
The
old-timers talked about the Yankee ingenuity and said
that the brains of the United States were the greatest
in the world and would
find
a way to overcome any
obstacle and defeat the enemies no matter how power-
ful they were.
After
this
disaster
to
the hydroplanes which had
been marching up the Mississippi, the enemy air
fleet
ceased its attacks for awhile, but about the end of June,
an air fleet swarmed over Cairo, landed without much
resistance, and officers were put in charge of the town.
The United States had already asked France to come
to their rescue and implored Canada to forbid England
or any other foreign countries to cross their borders to

--- PAGE 322 of 432 ---

812
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
attack the Northern and Eastern borders of the United
States.
France had quickly responded and informed
the United States Government that they stood ready to
order their air fleet to the United States or to attack
England and Germany at home.
This was another piece
of good news which cheered the country and put cour-
age into the hearts of the soldiers who had been fighting
for more than a year against such great odds and had
been meeting with such disastrous defeats.
The news-
papers were
optimistic,
but
the Government
official!
knew that the odds were
still greatly against us and
that we were out-classed and outnumbered in the
air,
where the decisive battles would be fought.

--- PAGE 323 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
313
CHAPTER XXYIII
OI:T July 4tli, 1931, the people all over the United
States were celebrating the victory at Cairo where
the English and German battleships and hydroplanes
had been
destroyed.
Everything had been
quiet and
there had been no more air attacks on the
cities.
A
large fleet of the enemies' planes were seen constantly
scouting up and down the Mississippi.
Colonel Gor-
don had sent out a scouting expedition with some of the
planes equipped with powerful
searchlights and they
had
discovered
several mother supply
ships,
like the
^^Tokyo," anchored
at great heights above Cairo.
He
knew that this meant that preparations were being made
to
attack
St. Louis and continue the advance up the
Mississippi,
that the enemy was making for Chicago
and the Great Lakes to form a line across the United
States so that their airplanes could control this territory,
shut off any attacks from the West while they advanced
on the Eastern and
iN'orthern borders
of the United
States.
The
!N'ation's
birthday
brought
more
good
news.
Canada informed the United States that she would join
hands with
her,
order England's
forces
to leave Ca-
nadian
territory and forbid them to cross Canada to
attack the United
States.
This news was received in
Washington just before the President delivered his an-

--- PAGE 324 of 432 ---

814
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
nual
Independence
address.
While
his
speech
was
short, he called attention to the fact that this was the
155th anniversary of the independence of the United
States and that the liberty of this country was threat-
ened
greater than
at any time since the days
of the
Declaration of Independence, but stated that cheering
news had
just come from Canada which would be a
great help ; that France, our old friend, who had stood
by us before, had also come to our rescue and that there
was room for hope.
The recent victory of Cairo was of
great importance.
The new inventions which were rap-
idly
being
completed
would
surely
save
the United
States
in her hour of
greatest
need.
He urged
the
people to be courageous, not leave their cities or desert
their homes unless absolutely necessary.
While no one
could be sure of the end, he hoped that a decisive victory
would be gained within a few months.
Colonel Gordon reported what the scouting planes had
discovered and said that this could mean but one thing,
that
the enemy
is
concentrating
at
Cairo
and
that
the next attacks would be on
St. Louis, then probably
Louisville,
Cincinnati, and Chicago.
At a conference
of the War Council, he suggested that there was no use
risking the
lives of the women and children
in these
cities
; that arrangements should be made to move them
to places of safety at once, that camps should be estab-
lished in the Catskills and Adirondack Mountains where
they could remain until the danger had passed.
The
Council,
after discussing the matter, decided that this
would prove to be a bad move on the part of the Gov-
ernment because it would disclose their weakened condi-

--- PAGE 325 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
315
tion to
tlie enemy who might be scouting around
St.
Louis at high altitudes and would see the people being
moved away and know that the country was frightened
and make an attack immediately.
The Council decided
to prepare for an attack, believing that with the help
of Canada and France,
this country would emerge a
victor.
In the early part of August,
1931, the attack upon
St. Louis started.
The United States had concentrated
every available force there.
Canada had sent her
air-
planes
to
patrol
the
I^orthern
border,
enabling
the
United States to withdraw more forces to protect the
Central part of the country.
The battle raged on and
off, day and night.
There were
attacks and counter-
attacks.
The United States factories were turning out
airplanes now at the rate of more than 1000 per day.
The Henry Motor Company of Detroit had made great
improvements on bombing and scouting planes and were
turning them out rapidly.
A new long-range gun had
been completed which would reach the enemy's planes
at greater heights and this proved to be of great value
in the battle of
St.
Louis.
On the third day of the
battle,
General Pearson ordered
Colonel Gordon and
Colonel Kennelworth
to
lead
their men
against
the
Southern and Eastern wings of the enemy.
They suc-
ceeded in bringing down over 500 of the enemy's planes,
and the United States in the encounter only lost about
200
planes.
This was very encouraging and General
Pearson ordered more of the reserves thrown into the
fight on the following day and this seemed just what
the enemy was waiting
for.
One mistake
after
an-

--- PAGE 326 of 432 ---

316
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
other was made by the subordinate officers of the United
States in carrying out instructions for attacking.
The
bombing planes ran short of ammunition and were de-
stroyed by the enemies in trying to return to their bases
for supplies.
The enemy had concentrated more than
30,000 planes for this giant attack on St. Louis.
Build-
ings were being destroyed daily and the loss of life was
great.
Frightened women and children were rushing in
every direction only to get into the path of the explod-
ing
bombs.
The
enemy's
planes
proved
superior,
larger and
better-manned.
Their
large supply
ships
anchored at high altitudes enabled them to get in their
effective work of
destruction when the United
States
planes ran out of ammunition.
After the
battle had waged for 14
days, with the
United
States
losing thousands
of
planes,
the
cause
seemed to be hopeless and
St. Louis was surrendered.
The situation was getting more desperate
all the time
and the people again were losing hope.
The large loss
of airships at the battle of St. Louis had weakened the
U.
S. Army regardless of the rapidity with which new
planes were being turned out.
The enemy took charge
of St. Louis and moved part of their supply bases there.
The
food
situation was
acute
thruout
the
country.
Farmers had been afraid to go to the field to plant any-
thing.
Canada was not able to supply all of our needs
and we were blockaded on the South, East and West.
The Cabinet now awoke to the fact that many mistakes
had been made and that the situation instead of improv-
ing was growing rapidly worse.
Before the fall of St. Louis or the news of it had had

--- PAGE 327 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
317
time to be fully understood by the people
all over the
United
States, the English and the Germans attacked
the Northern border, making for Chicago.
The lines
were
tightly drawn, the enemy was
still holding the
Western Coast and it now meant only a matter of cap-
turing Chicago, close up the lines between Chicago and
St.
Louis, and complete the enemy's
lines
across
the
Central part of the United States.
Council after coun-
cil was held while the fighting was going on around the
Great Lakes.
The Government rushed reinforcements
and the new long-range gun on our large cruising air-
ships was able to do effective work for a long time in
protecting
Chicago.
England
lost
heavily
in
the
battle
around
the
Great
Lakes
because Canada was
helping us there, but the blow was heavy to the United
(States.
Our losses in men and planes were tremendous.
In the early part of September,
1931,
it was plain
from the skirmishes which had been taking place around
the Great Lakes that the enemy was trying to attack
Chicago and
it was only a question of time when they
would break thru and make the
attack.
The United
States officers were well aware of the fact that if Chi-
cago
fell
into the hands of the enemy,
it would place
the United States
at a greater disadvantage than ever
to defend the Eastern Coast.
The United States War
Council decided to urge France to attack England and
Germany and make them withdraw
forces from
the
United States to protect their home cities.
France was
well equipped with airplanes and could rapidly destroy
the large cities in England and Germany and she was
the only country on the other side that we could look

--- PAGE 328 of 432 ---

318
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
to to help us.
When America's appeal was received in
France, the President of France sent the following mes-
sage to our Government:
"France
is mindful of
the
perilous position in which the
Land of Liberty is now placed.
She has not forgotten the days
when
she came
to your rescue
during the
struggles
of
the
young republic, and you proved that you did not forget when
your loyal sons crossed the Atlantic to help save France when
she was fighting with her back to the wall in 1917. We placed
the Statue of Liberty in the harbor of New York as a signal
light to the world to welcome the oppressed from every land
to the Land of Liberty.
It has ever stood as a beacon light
of truth, liberty and
justice to
all.
We now stand ready to
defend
that
statue
and
its
principles.
We
appreciate
the
generosity of the American people toward us in the past and
now extend them every aid within our power.
Our supplies
and forces are at your disposal."
About
this time England and Germany knew that
France was getting ready to aid the United States and
they had been preparing to enlist the aid of other coun-
tries in order to complete the victories already won and
gain
control
of the United
States and divide up the
territory.
On September
6th, France made the
first
attack upon London and the same night attacked Berlin
from the air, destroying many buildings, with the result
that there was a large loss of life.
Quickly following
this,
England,
Germany,
Austria,
Spain,
Italy
and
Japan called upon the other countries with whom they
had treaties to join them in the final battles against the
United States, promising a division of the spoils.
All
the world had become so jealous of the prosperity and

--- PAGE 329 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
319
* success
of the United
States previous to
this War of
the Air that they were eager to join in the conquest and
share in the great gold supply that had heen gathered
from all parts of the world by the United States.
Tur-
key and Russia were the first to join the enemy; then
quickly followed Rumania, Denmark^ Greece, Hungary,
Horocco and Portugal.
These new supporters to the
enemy's cause rushed their airplane fleets to the East-
ern shores of the United States
; sent aid to England and
Germany to help hold
off Erance and keep the enemy
from having to withdraw any forces from the United
States to protect their own countries.
The enemy, knowing that they now had practically
all of Europe against the United States, were confident
that
it would only be a matter of a few weeks to take
Chicago, Boston, 'New York and Washington, then make
their own terms and the United States would be forced
to accept.
The United States knew that the most des-
perate battle of the war was now impending and an-
other council was held.
They were expecting the first
blow to be struck in Chicago.
The enemy's reinforce-
ments had arrived and were scattered in every direction.
The night of October 1st proved to be one of the worst
so far of the war.
The enemy attacked Omaha, Kan-
sas City, Denver, Cincinnati, Louisville, Milwaukee and
St. Paul.
The forces from Mexico attacked El Paso,
San Antonio, Galveston and Houston.
The greater part
of the United States forces being concentrated around
Chicago and the East, this scattered attack all over the
South, West and ISTorth was disorganizing to our forces.
There was great loss of life and property in all of these

--- PAGE 330 of 432 ---

320
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
cities because they were not properly prepared for the
attack which came suddenly and unexpectedly.
On the morning of October 2nd a Council was held
and
it was decided to immediately send
as many
air-
planes
as possible
to help protect these
cities because
an attack was expected again that night.
This was just
exactly what
the enemy wanted,—^to
get
the United
States to scatter forces, withdrawing part of their armies
which were protecting Chicago.
On
the
night
of
October 2nd
the enemy
concen-
trated an
attack
of more than 50,000
planes
against
Chicago and broke thru the United States lines on every
side.
England, Germany and Russia turned loose their
giant dreadnought
battle
planes, the
largest
that had
ever yet been used in the War in the Air.
Many of these
planes carried 12- to 36-inch guns.
They were equipped
with the latest improved 12-cylinder motors
; were oper-
ated by
electricity
as
well
as
gasoline.
These
giant
planes could be supplied with power thru the
air by
radio current.
The attack was well-timed and they had
every advantage of the United States forces.
The
first
attack
destroyed
Chicago's
great
skyscrapers.
The
Board of Trade Building, Post
Office and other Gov-
ernment buildings were completely destroyed.
Loss of
life was
appalling.
Over a million people
lost
their
lives.
More defenseless women and children were killed
than in any other battle during the war.
When the sun rose over the greaty City of Chicago
on the morning of October 3rd, buildings were smoulder-
ing in ruins
in every
direction.
It was the
greatest
destruction
that had
ever been
in the
history
of
the

--- PAGE 331 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
321i
world.
'No mortal tongue could describe the terrifying
sights.
There was a brief respite.
As the sun rose the
enemy's
planes which had wreaked
their
vengeance,
withdrew. The United States had lost more than 25,000
planes and their best
aviators had gone down in this
terrible disaster.
Colonel Gordon and Colonel Kennelworth had done
wonderful work and fortunately their
lives had been
preserved for future use to their country.
As Colonel
Gordon made
his way
to
headquarters
to
report
to
General Pearson, he thought
of what he had read in
the Acts 2:17:
"And
it shall come to pass in the last
days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all
flesh
: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy,
and your young men shall see visions, and your old men
shall dream dreams : and I will shew wonders in heaven
above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and
fire,
and vapour
of smoke."
He thought
of how he had
dreamed and prophesied and how he had believed the
Bible knowing that these terrible things would come in
the latter days.
As he saw the blood, the fire, the smoke
and the ruined
city, for a moment he wondered why
God should permit such destruction as this in order that
the Scriptures might be fulfilled, but then he thought
of what he had read
in Isaiah 2:2:
"And he
shall
judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people
;
and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and
their spears into pruninghooks
; nation shall not lift up
sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more."
He prayed to God to hasten the day when men
shall not make war any more.

--- PAGE 332 of 432 ---

322
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
The United
States
officers knew now
that
if they
held out, Chicago would be completely annihilated be-
cause England's giant bombing planes were able to de-
stroy every building and kill every living soul.
General
Pearson called all the commanding officers together and
they quickly agreed
that with the enemy outnumber-
ing them 50
to
1, another attack would be soon over
with and that
it was a useless sacrifice of human life
and
their remaining planes
to
offer
resistance.
But
before surrendering, they decided to ask the consent of
the President and his Cabinet.
The President hastily
called the Cabinet together and when they assembled,
their faces were grave.
They
all knew what had hap-
pened the night before in Chicago.
The President with
sadness in his voice read the decision of the command-
ing Generals and said :
^^This
is the gravest crisis this
country has ever faced.
To surrender may mean the
loss of our country and our liberty ; to go on and fight
may mean even worse.
To surrender Chicago and wait
for time to determine the next move may be the wisest
plan.
We can only trust to God and hope.
What
is
your decision, gentlemen V^
"Not a man rose to discuss
the matter.
One by one they answered :
"It seems best
to permit our commanding
officers
to surrender
Chi-
cago."
ISTews was quickly flashed to headquarters at Chicago
and about 10 a.m. the white flag was hoisted from the
few remaining tall buildings and a large plane was sent
out to circle the sky with white flags floating from
its
wings.
As soon as Chicago was surrendered, the enemy
planes
and
land
forces
were
brought
up
and
they

--- PAGE 333 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
323
closed
tlie gap between Chicago and
St. Louis, leaving
the Central lines intact and the Western lines holding
the Pacific Coast.
The l^ew York
Stock Exchange
closed
to
prevent
complete panic because the people were panic-stricken
and selling stocks regardless of price.
They soon dis-
covered
that
the enemy had
bases
for
supplies
and
ships
all up and down the Atlantic and in the Gulf of
Mexico.
They were in control of the ^N^orthern border
and in position to attack the Eastern Coast from the
]^orth, South, East and West.
There was no minimizing
the seriousness of the situation.
The fall of Chicago
had broken the heart
of the American people.
They
were panic-stricken and
it looked
as tho for the
first
time in history, Old Glory would trail the dust.
There
was a great War Council
held.
To make a plea for
peace
at this time meant surrender to the enemy and
accepting any terms that they might want
to
dictate.
The leaders of the War Council were puzzled.
They
didn't know what move to make next since they were
overwhelmed by great
odds.
The United
States was
practically alone in the fight.
France and Canada were
the only countries which had not joined forces against
the United
States.
When the news of the fall of Chi-
cago reached France, they realized that America was
doomed.
The United States Government
officials knowing the
seriousness of the situation made no attempt to conceal
it, but decided to play for time.
They replied to the
note from the enemy and
asked
for an
armistice
to
last thirty days, in which neither side would make any

--- PAGE 334 of 432 ---

824
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
attack until they discussed plans to see if it were possible
to arrive at any acceptable terms.
The enemy taking
this as an admission of defeat and weakness on the part
of the United States granted 15 days' time for a dis-
cussion of terms, and sent the following note:
The
Allied Powers demand the complete surrender of the
United States and a division of territory; Japan to have the
Western coast, England to have the Eastern coast and North-
ern
territory bordering on Canada;
Mexico
to
have
Texas,
and Spain to have the territory along the Mississippi and Gulf
of Mexico.
The United
States
is to turn over to
the Allied
Powers its entire gold supply and the people to submit to the
various Governments
to which
the
territory
is
allotted and
there
is to be no longer
anj^ United
States
of America.
If
the Government of the United
States refuses to accept these
terms, we
will destroy Boston, New York,
Philadelphia and
Washington,
and
take
charge
of
the
Eastern
coast
of
the
United
States.
Your
answer
must
be
received
within
the
allotted time.

--- PAGE 335 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
325
CHAPTER XXIX
W'H.'EN
these terms were
received, everyone was
gloomy at headquarters.
The President called
his Cabinet for a conference.
A United War Council
was also called, and after a long discussion, they were
forced to admit that
it was not only a probability but
a
possibility
that
the enemy would
take
IN^ew York
City, capture the Eastern ports, and Washington, and
then dictate any terms they might
desire.
To submit
to the terms already offered would mean ruin and dis-
grace but the question was what to do.
Men high up
and Government
officials who had
relied upon
their
judgment before, now realized that one mistake after
the other had placed the country in this terrible posi-
tion.
Colonel
Charles Manson,
a
descendant
of the
family of General Lee, arose and asked the War Coun-
cil
if he might have
permission
to
speak.
It
was
promptly granted
because he was
a man
highly
re-
spected for his good judgment, and one who had had
advocated the building
of
greater
air
fleets and
pre-
paredness years
before the war
started.
His
speech
was as follows:
General
Pearson and Sons
of
Liberty:
This
country
now faces the gravest situation since the days of Washington
and the winter
at Valley Forge.
We
are not only menaced
by
England,
our
old
enemy,
but
practically
by
the
whole
world.
France now
is
our
only
friend.
The enemy
is
in

--- PAGE 336 of 432 ---

826
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
control and can attack from every side.
It
is a time to think,
and think seriously; a time for action rather than words.
We need the man of the hour, and in times past, the United
States has always produced that man.
I am a great believer
in
the
Bible.
I have read
the predictions made by
Colonel
Robert Gordon ever since he was a very young man.
Just
what is happening now he predicted years ago.
He has made
some remarkable inventions.
Was born under the sign which
astrologers call the Ascendant Sign of the United States, the
sign Gemini, ruled by Mercury,
the Messenger of the Gods.
This sign
is symbolized by the ancients as the double-bodied
sign.
It is a sign of genius and intellect.
Ancient mythology
tells us
that one of the twins was a great warrior, and
his
brother a great inventor and that he invented
all of the war
instruments which helped his brother to win his victories.
He
was said to be so swift and shrewd that he had wings on his
heels and wings on
his shoulders.
Could sip the wine from
the cups of the Gods while they were drinking, without getting
caught.
This
sign
has
always
symbolized
the
United
States
and
Yankee
ingenuity.
The
greatest
inventions
that
have
ever
been were made by United States inventors.
The airplane was
invented here, the submarine, the great guns which have been
used in war, the steamboats, electricity, radio, and other valu-
able inventions too numerous to mention.
From what I know
and have read, I
still hope and believe that the United States
has the brains to outwit the entire world.
I believe
this be-
cause
it
is the land of liberty, because there never has been a
nation to conquer
it.
The United
States has never been an
aggressor, never entered a war on
its own accord.
I believe
that God
is with us and that
this
is the country established
for God's kingdom.
I have read the Bible and followed Colonel Gordon's writings
and
believe
with
St.
Luke,
Chap.
7 : 22,
"Then
Jesus
an-
swered and said unto them *Go your way and
tell John what
things ye have
seen and
heard, how
that
the
blind
see,
the
lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are

--- PAGE 337 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
327
raised,
to the poor the gospel
is preached, but what went ye
out for
to
see—a prophet—yea,
I
say unto
you, and much
more than a prophet, for I say unto you, Among those that are
bom of woman, there
is not a greater prophet than John the
Baptist, but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater
than
he.'
I say to you, gentlemen, that I believe there is not a greater
prophet than Colonel Gordon.
Further, I believe that he
is
the greatest inventor that the United States has ever produced,
and believe that he can save the situation or find some solution
of the problem.
The Army
Of&cers made a mistake
not
to
listen
to
Colonel Gordon when he
offered them
advice and
told them he could complete an invention to save the country.
I believe the prophecy of Daniel which has often been re-
ferred
to
by
Colonel
Gordon,
Chap.
7
: 27,
"And
king-
dom and dominion, and the greatness of kingdom under the
whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the
Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all
dominions shall serve and obey him."
I believe that refers to
the United
States.
If we can win
this war, then as we are
one
against the world,
it
shall
be a kingdom
of
the United
World.
In my judgment
it would be wise to place Colonel
Robert Gordon in supreme command and follow
his instruc-
tions to the
letter.
After
Colonel Manson had
ceased
talking and
sat
down, complete silence reigned for several minutes. The
War Council knew that there were only three more days
left until the time of the armistice was up when the
enemy would
attack.
General Pearson was
the
first
to rise.
He
said, ^^Gentlemen of the Council, I have
known Colonel Gordon ever since he entered the service.
I
interceded
for him and
obtained
his
release from
prison.
He has proved to be one of the most valuable
men that we have had
in the Aviation
Corps.
His
bravery and genius have surpassed
all
others.
I am

--- PAGE 338 of 432 ---

328
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
willing to surender my office to him and If agreeable to
the rest of you I make a motion that he be made Su-
preme Commander of the United States Army and we
will abide by his decision."
General Pearson was
held
in great
respect by the
Army officers, and his judgment was not questioned.
A
vote was taken and
it was unanimous.
General Pearson arose and said, ^^Colonel Gordon, by
the authority and power vested in me, I now confer
upon you the title of the Supreme Commander of the
Armies of the United States and place upon your shoul-
ders the greatest burden ever placed on any man.
Our
country's life hangs in the balance.
The situation
is
desperate.
Something must be done and done quickly.
We must give an answer to the enemy, and when that
answer is given,
it either settles our doom forever or if
we can win, means that the Stars and Stripes will ever
stand supreme to the world.
Sir, what have you to say ?"
Supreme Commander Gordon arose. His face showed
new responsibility which rested upon his shoulders.
He
said simply, "I thank you for the honor and confidence,
but before completely accepting I want to ask if I may
have the unanimous consent of the entire War Council
to carry out my plans no matter how absurd they may
seem to the War Council."
The entire Council arose
in a body and voted their unanimous consent.
General
Pearson then said "Supreme Commander Robert Gor-
don, we await your orders."
He saluted and sat down.
Supreme Commander Gordon arose and said, "Dispatch
immediately the following answer to the enemy's Head-
quarters.

--- PAGE 339 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
329
" 'The Government of the United States of America, the land
of
Liberty,
refuses your terms and
will never surrender
or
accede to any of your demands.
You may strike as soon as
you are ready.
We have not yet begun to fight.'"
When he had finished speaking, there was not a whis-
per.
He sat down and
Colonel Walter Kennelworth
arose and said:
^^Gentlemen of the War Council, you
have heard Supreme Commander Gordon's answer to
the enemy.
You must know and realize that in hurl-
ing defiance like this at the enemy, there
is something
which gives him supreme confidence.
He knows exactly
what he has and what he
is going to do, and you can
rely upon him
in
this emergency."
Colonel Kennel-
worth
saluted
his Supreme Commander Gordon and
said, "I await your orders,
Sir."
Supreme
Commander
Gordon
said,
"I
appoint
Colonel Walter Kennelworth as aide-de-camp in carry-
ing out my plans.
I appoint Captain Edna Kennel-
worth
second
aide and
confer upon her
the
title
of
Colonel."
He turned to the Council and there was not
a dissenting voice.
When Supreme Commander Gordon had finished his
appointments and gave his instructions to his
officers,
General Pearson arose and said, ^'Supreme Commander
Gordon, I do not wish to in any way inquire into your
plans or interfere with any course which you may pur-
sue, you have my heartiest support, but
if you
don't
mind, I should like to have you explain to me what the
trouble has been in the past, why we have heen out-
classed and have lost the war thus far and what is now
the remedy or what you propose to do."

--- PAGE 340 of 432 ---

330
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Supreme Commander Gordon replied :
"The trouble
in the past has been that the enemy used noiseless air-
planes.
Our next great handicap was the fact that they
could rise to heights to which we are unable to attain,
giving them the advantage in the fighting.
Of course,
we have been hopelessly outnumbered from the
start,
by that I mean, in the amount of equipment.
Another
thing that we need and must have, which the enemy
already has,
is an airship that can be anchored and re-
main anchored in the air for an indefinite length of time.
We need a ship that can take
its power from the
air,
giving it an unlimited cruising radius.
We need other
ships for cruising purposes and scouters that can take
their power from the
air, not having to return to the
base at any time for fuel or ammunition, working from
a base in the air at
all times.
The next and most im-
portant thing we need
is an
invisible plane.
An
in-
visible, noiseless plane will be one of the things to beat
the enemy.
When our planes can travel high or low, no
longer be seen or heard, we will be able to obtain
in-
formation
about
the enemy's
position and
plans and
thereby know their weak points, when and where
to
attack.
"The great mistake that the army officers have made
from time to time was in not listening to the counsel of
younger men.
By
this, I do not mean myself alone.
My authority for this
is taken from the Bible,—Prov.
20:18:
^Every purpose
is established by counsel, and
with good advice make war.'
Prov. 24:6:
^For the
wise counsel thou shalt make thy war, and in a multi-
tude of
counsellors there
is
safety.'
There have not

--- PAGE 341 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
331
been enough counsellors and enough changes in plans
at the proper time when the enemy was winning.
"My strength and power
is in the Lord and I shall
follow the rules laid down in the Bible in my future
campaign.
2 Samuel 22: 33:
'God is my strength and
power:
and he maketh my way perfect.'
1 Chronicles
5:22: Tor there fell down many slain, because the war
was of God and they dwelt in their
steads
until the
captivity.'
This great War in the Air
is according to
the will of God and to fulfill the Scriptures and to work-
out God's plan for an eternal united kingdom of the
world.
You may wonder at my confidence and my de-
fiance of the enemy at this time when it looks as if our
chance for
victory
is
absolutely
impossible.
I
refer
you to
St. Luke 1:37:
Tor with God nothing
shall
be impossible.'
Again Luke 1:52:
^Ile hath put down
the mighty from their
seats, and exalted them of low
degree.'
I believe that if
it
is the will of God for us
to win he
v/iil give us the power
to bring down the
mighty who have tried to oppress and destroy this na-
tion, the land of liberty.
"Read Acts 17: 26:
'And hath made of one blood
all nations of men, for to dwell on
all the face of the
earth ; and hath determined the times before appointed,
and
the
bounds
of
their
habitation.'
All men
are
brothers and
it
is God's will that they should dwell to-
gether on the earth in peace.
This great war, the last
of all,
is brought about to teach men that they can not
defy the laws of God.
"Romans 8: 25 and 31
:
'For we are saved by hope:
but hope that is seeii, is not hope :
for what a man seeth,

--- PAGE 342 of 432 ---

332
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
why doth he yet hope for ?
But if we hope for that we
see not, then do we with patience wait for
it.
What
shall we then say to these things?
If God he for us,
who can he against us V
I am confident that God is for
us, that he established this land of America never to
be destroyed.
Then no matter how dark the situation
is now, even if all the nations of the world join against
us,
if God
is for us they shall not prevail.
"Getting back to what we need to defeat the enemy,
man has always found a way to do things.
The genius
of America has never been defeated.
We only have to
go back over the histories of wars in which America has
engaged to find evidence that in emergency they have
always found a way out, because they were led by the
divine powder of Almighty God.
In time of war, man
has dug tunnels under the earth in order that he could
pass safely, concealing and protecting himself.
During
the great World War, Germany was the first to succeed
with the submarine, passing secretly under the water,
doing great damage and at the same time, suffering very
little damage to her submarines.
While the submarine
was what caused her to lose the war,
it came very near
enabling her to win it. Man has dug tunnels thru moun-
tains and under rivers when
it was impossible almost
to go over them or get thru any other way.
In ISTew
York City, in 1927, one of the greatest engineering feats
up to that time was completed, when a tunnel for ve-
hicular traffic was opened from "New York City under
the Hudson River to the State of l^ew Jersey.
"What we now need and need more than anything
else is a Tunnel thru the Air.
With such a tunnel and

--- PAGE 343 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
noiseless, invisible planes bo that we can pass thru the
air without being interfered with or harmed and with-
out being seen or heard, our victory
is
assured.
To
niake a Tunnel thru the Air
is not
at
all impossible.
It is just as easy as to put a tunnel under the earth or
drive a submarine under the water.
While the air
is
invisible,
it is one of the strongest forces that we have.
If the water can be separated or a submarine can push
it
each way
and
travel
under
it,
if
dirt
can
be
removed and
a man put a tunnel under a river or
a
mountain, we can find a way to put a Tunnel thru the
Air so others can not see us, hear or enter unless we
so
desire.
''One of my first plans will be to put a Tunnel thru
the Air.
With a Tunnel thru the Air from 'New York
City to London and Germany, our airplanes may safely
pass thru without being seen or heard and the enemy
will be unable to attack them, placing us in position to
leave the tunnel at any time and return to it for safety.
"We need
a Tunnel thru the Air from the Great
Lakes to ISTew Orleans and the Gulf of Mexico so that
our planes may pass safely thru this tunnel, take obser-
vations of the enemy's position without being seen or
heard,
and when
necessary
leave
this
tunnel,
attack
the enemy, return to the tunnel again for protection.
[We can also have a Tunnel thru the Air so that when
the enemy's planes enter this tunnel and do not under-
stand
it, they will be unable to
get out of
it and we
may keep them there in prison as long as we wish, cap-
ture or destroy them.
"I have the plan already worked out for this Tunnel

--- PAGE 344 of 432 ---

334
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
tkni the Air.
I expect to accomplisli
it by the use of
certain
light
rays and
light waves,
sending
a
strong
current thru the
air on one side and another current
on the other side anywhere from 100 yards to miles wide
and then thru
another process
that I have
in mind,
remove the
air from between these lines
or
currents,
making a vacuum or space between the air which will
really be a tunnel.
We can drive our planes thru this
tunnel by radio rays, directing them from a great cen-
tral station which I expect to build.
All the aviators
know that often they run into what they call air-pockets
in the
air, which means nothing more than a vacuum
made by Nature in some way and that when these air-
pockets are encountered an airship will drop right down
until denser layers of air are reached.
If Nature can
construct a tunnel thru the air, then certainly man with
the guidance of God's divine power can do
it.
It may
be hard for you to understand and believe my theories,
but they are founded on faith and the knowledge that
with God nothing
is impossible.
^^I have demonstrated in the past that every law laid
down in the Bible is provable, every prophecy has been
fulfilled or will be fulfilled.
I again refer to Roman
1:17:
Tor
therein
is
the
righteousness
of God
re-
vealed from faith to faith:
as
it
is VTritten, The just
shall live by faith.'
At this moment there
is nothing
for this nation to hang their hope on but faith in a divine
Creator, and
if I am right in my interpretations that
the United States was God's kingdom which he created
never to be destroyed and if it
is to be the united king-
dom of the world, then we must live by faith.
If every

--- PAGE 345 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
S35
other man, woman, and child in the United States, yea,
and the world, turns against me, I will believe and fol-
low that
faith, knowing that no power can harm me
and that no matter how many may be against me, I can
win so long as I believe in the divine Creator.
"Romans 5
: 3-4
:
^And not only so, but we glory in
tribulations also
:
knowing that tribulation worketh pa-
tience ; and patience, experience
; and experience, hope.'
These trials and tribulations which we have gone thru
have
brought
knowledge.
We have learned
patience
and thru patience,
experience.
I propose to put that
experience and knowledge that I have gained in the past
into execution to preserve and protect my country which
means more than life to me.''
When Supreme Commander Gordon had finished talk-
ing,
there was new life and new hope in the face of
every man in the room.
It was plain to see that they
had caught the divine inspiration; that their faith had
been strengthened and that they now believed that God
would lead them safely to victory and preserve the na-
tion which He had created
to be a land
of love and
liberty.
General Pearson
arose and
said:
"Supreme Com-
mander Gordon, I
offer you my heartfelt thanks and
sincere gratitude.
You have placed in my heart a new
hope ; made me understand our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ better than ever before.
I believe I bespeak the
sentiments of the entire Council and that they, too, have
supreme confidence in you and now understand what
the great faith that you have had in your Creator has
done for you.
Had the world and all of us understood

--- PAGE 346 of 432 ---

336
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
the Bible and God's plan
as you
do,
this war would
never have taken place.
I plainly see now that
it
is
God's intention
to teach man thru
trials, sorrow and
bitter
experiences
to
reverence
and
respect
the law
which he has laid down for man to follow.
Man must
learn to love his neighbor as himself and to do unto
others as he would have them do unto him.
When that
law is understood and obeyed, then men will no longer
want to make war because war is not based on brotherly
love, but on greed, jealousy and hatred.
When we de-
cided to surrender Chicago, I felt that that meant the
end of our glorious country.
I could see no hope, no
way out, but you have shown us the way and our com-
bined faith in you, together with the inspiration from
our holy Father, will guide us to victory thru your lead-
ership.
We are with you, in all confidence, to victory.''
Supreme Commander Gordon then ordered each
offi-
cer and commander to return to his respective post of
duty and
to await further
orders.
He
said,
^'If my
plans develop as I think, you will not need to take fur-
ther action."
He asked for the use of the largest build-
ing in JSTew York, ^^The Mammouth" and wanted the en-
tire top floor of this 110-story building at 42nd street and
Broadway.
His wishes were immediately granted. Was
told that the Government already had taken over con-
trol of all the large buildings in the United States and
that he might use the building as he chose.
Supreme
Commander Gordon
departed from Washington
that
night
in the
old
"St. Marie" which he had
ordered
brought to Washington to convey him back, taking with
him Colonel Walter Kennelworth.
He had instructed

--- PAGE 347 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
337
Colonel Edna Kennelworth to meet him
at the Mam-
mouth Building
in New York.
On
arrival he
pro-
ceeded
at once
to put the top
floor in order for the
'^Demon of Death"
to he moved
in.
Colonel Kennel-
worth and another
assistant were
sent
at once to the
Adirondacks to the secret hiding of "Marie the Angel
of Mercy/' to test out this giant Ezekiel airplane, and
bring
it to New York City.
The machine for distrib-
uting the sleeping gas which would reach a radius of
700 miles, was made in readiness on the top
floor of
the building.
"Marie the Angel of Mercy" was in per-
fect working order, and arrived in New York ship-shape.
The whole United States was waiting in anxiety be-
cause it was known that within a few days the armistice
would end and the United States must either fight or
surrender.
The people in Washington, Boston, Phila-
delphia, and New York had not slept for more than a
week.
They knew that an air attack had been threat-
ened
and
feared
the
consequences.
Supreme
Com-
mander Gordon dispatched the sleeping gas by "Marie
the Angel
of Mercy," and
it was
distributed
to
the
planes all across the country.
Colonel Kennelworth re-
turned at the end of the second day in "Marie the Angel
of Mercy," after distributing the sleeping gas and giving
instructions how to use it.
The "Demon of Death" was
tested out and found to be in good working order.
For
many months previous to
this,
all of the large
cities
had been kept
in darkness because they feared night
attacks.

--- PAGE 348 of 432 ---

338
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXX
WHEN the commanders of the Allied Enemy in
Chicago
and
St.
Louis
received
the
defiance
hurled
at them on October
15,
1931,
this
reply was
signed by Supreme Commander Robert Gordon.
The
English, German,
Austrian,
and Russians had never
heard of this United
States
officer before and were at
a loss to undertand whom the United States had placed
in supreme command.
The reply was conveyed to Jap-
anese
and
Spanish
headquarters
in Mexico
and
the
Japanese quickly understood just who Supreme Com-
mander Robert Gordon was and
feared
that
he had
made some wonderful invention which had made him
confident of winning the war.
The Japanese Generals,
knowing what this might mean and fearing the great
genius, Robert Gordon, asked for an allied war council
to convene before making another attack.
On October
21st it was decided that the War Council should be held
in the City
of Mexico.
The
allied enemy were
con-
fident that the United States would not make any attack
in the near future, but would wait for them to make
the next move.
They felt that the great losses which
had been suffered by the United
States Army
at the
battle of Chicago placed them in no position to make
an
immediate
attack
and
that
they
would
try
to
strengthen their position for the next attack by the al-

--- PAGE 349 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
339
lied
enemy.
It
was
decided
that
the
commanding
generals of all the allied enemy nations should proceed
at once to the City of Mexico
to hold a council and
decide what the wisest and next move should be.
They
left in the dead hours of the night in the fastest planes
and those which could rise to the highest altitudes, en-
abling them to travel noiselessly and at a height at which
they could not be detected or captured.
The scouting
hnd cruising planes were left to patrol the lines between
Chicago,
St.
Louis and ]^ew Orleans
and watch
for
any move that might be made on the part of the United
States forces.
When the Council had convened in the City of Mexico,
General ISTagato, the commander of the Japanese army,
arose and said
:
"Supreme Commander Robert Gordon
now in charge of the United States forces is well known
to us.
He
is the man who made the
first flight from
"New York City to Japan in 1927, traveling at a speed
of more than 300 miles per hour.
He is the man who
invented the muffler which made our airplanes noiseless.
We bought it from him and it helped us to successfully
wage this war.
When we attacked the Rio Grande and
were preparing to bombard El Paso, Gordon, we believe,
was the man who successfully brought down our great-
est ship, the ^Tokyo
J-1.'
Later we captured Gordon
at the battle of San Francisco.
Lie was flying one of
our planes which was on board the Tokyo.
We found
that he had
a wonderful Pocket-Radio by which we
could communicate without any sound passing thru the
air, thus avoiding our orders being intercepted.
After
negotiating with him, we gave him his freedom,
eon-

--- PAGE 350 of 432 ---

840
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
ducted him safely back
to the American lines in con-
sideration of his turning over to us his secret Pocket-
Radio, which we worked successfully for many months.
Finally
it failed to work and we have always believed
that he invented something by which he could prevent
our communications.
"He
is one of the
ablest inventors that the United
States has.
The fact that he has been placed in com-
mand means that he must have made some great
dis-
covery or new invention which has inspired the United
States with confidence of winning the war.
While we
have
all the advantage in numbers, both in men, ships
and
ammunition,
and
to
all
appearance
the
United
States is hopelessly crippled and will not be able to hold
out much longer, one new invention by this man Gordon
may mean our defeat.
It
is my opinion that the fac-
tories in Detroit, Michigan, have been working on some
of his new discoveries.
Our next attack should be di-
rected
at
Detroit.
We should capture
that
city and
destroy the factories of the big automobile concerns and
other manufacturing concerns there.
All of these man-
ufacturing concerns have long since been commandeered
by the United States Government and are working on
war weapons and ammunition."
When
Colonel
ISTagato had
finished
speaking,
the
Spanish, English, German, Austrian and Russian Gen-
erals discussed war plans for many days and there were
numerous
disagreements
before
it was
finally
agreed
as to just what the next move should be.
Finally they
united on the plan to make the next attack upon De-
troit and
if successful there, proceed to attack Boston,

--- PAGE 351 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
341
Kew York, Washington and
tlie Eastern Coast of
tlie
United States.
The delay by the Allied Enemy was just what Su-
preme Commander Gordon wanted.
It gave him time
to prepare.
He had ordered the Henry Motor Com-
pany of Detroit to proceed at once to manufacture ac-
cording
to
his plans which he sent them, two
large
machines, one positive and one negative, by which he
could send currents of electricity thru the air and pro-
duce a vacuum, or as he called
it, a "Tunnel thru the
Air."
These plans had been worked out years before
and there was no question but what the machines would
work
successfully.
The Henry Motor Company had
been commandeered by the United States Government
and as soon as they received the order and plans from the
Supreme Commander,
they
started running day and
night working to build the two giant machines.
The fifteen days' armistice expired on October 18th,
1931.
Supreme Commander Gordon was in readiness
and waited the
first attack of the enemy.
Less than
thirty days from the time that he ordered work started
on the machines, they reported that the machines were
completed and ready
to
test
out.
He
called Colonel
Kennelworth to his
office in ISTew York and explained
to him that the great Vacuum Producer, as the machine
had been named, had been completed; ordered him to
proceed
at once to Detroit and
test out the machines
both for short and long distance work.
Colonel Kennelworth arrived in Detroit on ITovem-
ber 17th.
The following day tested out the Tunnel ma-
chines; reported to Supreme Commander Gordon that

--- PAGE 352 of 432 ---

S42
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
they were working in fine shape and producing results
according to the plans.
The Supreme Commander then
decided to go immediately to Detroit and establish one
of the machines at a base there and have Colonel Ken-
nelworth take the other machine to Cincinnati and set
it up.
The machine was transported secretly and suc-
cessfully to Cincinnati and set up in one of the largest
buildings in the city.
On E'ovember
20th, Supreme Commander Gordon
and Colonel Kennelworth tested the Tunnel machines
over this long distance.
The machines were set to pro-
due a tunnel 100 yards wide at
first and were set in
motion.
The American
scouting
airplanes were
sent
off over a described area and on entering between these
lines found that they were in a complete tunnel.
They
could
travel quickly back and forth thru the Tunnel
in the Air.
This was a great triumph.
Commander
Gordon instructed
all those connected with the test to
keep it a complete secret.
He knew that this was going
to be a great surprise to the enemy when they started
their next attack.
Supreme Commander Gordon
had now
completed
another new invention on the same plan of the radio
that he had to use in his
office in 'New York several
years before to record conversations when the manipu-
lators were trying to catch him in the stock market.
He
had enlarged this machine so that it would record voices
3000 miles away and named it the "Tel-Talk.''
On the night of November 19th, 1931, the Supreme
War Council which had convened in Mexico City broke
up and the commanding generals returned to their vari-

--- PAGE 353 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
S4S
ous
posts
around
St.
I^uis
and
Chicago.
Supreme
Commander Gordon had his powerful Tel-Talk directed
go that he would get all the conversation along the lines
between Chicago,
St. Louis and 'New Orleans.
When
he went to his headquarters in Detroit on the morning
of ^November 20th, he went into look at his Tel-Talk,
saw that there had been a conference of the enemy held
the night before.
He pushed the needle of the machine
back and turned
it on; put his ear to the receiver and
listened.
He found that the commanding generals had
talked over the conference in Mexico and had now de-
cided
that
their next
attack would be on
Detroit
in
order
to
destroy
the
factories
there and
prevent
the
United States continuing making airplanes and inven-
tions which might help them to win the war.
He was
very happy to get the plans of the enemy.
It was just
what he wanted.
He was anxious to test the Tunnel
thru the Air, capture the enemy's planes and keep them
there because he knew when once he got them in the
Tunnel, thy would be unable to get out of
it and he
could keep them suspended in the air indefinitely, mov-
ing up and down in the Tunnel, or could capture them
and destroy them.
He was impatient and anxious for
and attack upon Detroit and decided to defy the enemy
and urge them on.
With the plans of the enemy in his possession, Su-
preme Commander Gordon decided to change the loca-
tion of the Tunnel machines
so as to protect the fac-
tories and large buildings in Detroit.
He arranged the
machines so that when the attacking planes came over
Detroit at a high altitude, he could drop them into the

--- PAGE 354 of 432 ---

344
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
Tunnel thru the Air and thus prevent any harm to the
factories or buildings in Detroit.
He waited patiently
for an attack upon the city, but no move of any kind
was made by the enemy.
When
it was near Thanks-
giving,
he had
a
great
desire that
the
battle
should
start around that time so that the United States might
have the greatest Thanksgiving in history because he
was confident that if the attack came, Detroit would bo
successfully defended and the enemy for the first time
would find that we had outwitted them.
He decided to
urge the enemy to make an attack on Detroit as soon
as possible,
so ordered a large electric sign built with
letters twenty
feet high, ^'DETROIT IS READY-
WONT YOU COME AND TAKE US WE WANT
TO BE YOUR THANKSGIVING TURKEY.'' The
sign was placed on an airplane and lighted.
This plane
passed in full view of the enemy's lines
at
St. Louis
and Chicago.
What the enemy thought of this, perhaps
no one will ever know.
Colonel Manson later wrote that
this electric sign put the fear of God in the heart of
the enemy; that the Germans recalled the days when
the Yankees
arrived
at the time
of the great World
War.
The
Japanese,
the
Spanish
and
the
English
realized that this was not meant for a bluff and thought
they had made a mistake in allowing 15 days' armistice,
now that the United States had decided to fight again.
How they could hope to win, the enemy could not see.
They decided to teach this young, boastful commander
a lesson that he would never forget.
On Thanksgiving night, November 24th, the attack
was ordered.
Supreme Commander Gordon was at din-

--- PAGE 355 of 432 ---

I
OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
345
ner and a messenger interrupted him to
tell him that
*^Tel-Talk'' had picked up an important message.
He
rushed to the secret room and noticed that a conference
had been held and orders given by the enemy to attack
Detroit that night.
He immediately communicated this
information
secretly
with
the new
Pocket-Radio
to
Colonel Kennelworth in Cincinnati.
Told him to be in
readiness to adjust the Tunnel machine and change the
location and
altitude any moment that he
instructed.
He ordered all the lights in the streets of Detroit to be
kept on that night.
It has been the custom for many
months, since long before the attack at Chicago, to keep
all the cities in darkness at night.
He had just completed another new invention which he
called the Radium Ray.
With this Ray he could locate
anything in the sky 75 to 100 miles away.
He had the
Radium Ray machine in readiness to search the sky for
the
first attack that night.
Just before 10
o'clock he
was sweeping the sky with the Radium Ray when he
discovered the enemy planes approaching from the direc-
tion of Chicago.
There was a large flock of them flying
at very high
altitudes, followed by three large supply
ships.
He knew that these supply ships would anchor
in the
air somewhere over Detroit and
the bombing
planes would make the attack.
He decided to send Cap-
tain Morrison, the famous aviator who had distinguished
himself at the battle of Chicago, to lead a fleet of decoy
airplanes to meet the invading planes and to lead them
into the Tunnel thru the Air.
Captain Morrison led
his swift
cruisers into the
air to the greatest heights
they could
rise, and
as they neared
the approaching

--- PAGE 356 of 432 ---

846
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
enemy they began to turn loose the rapid-firing
anti-
aircraft guns.
As soon
as the enemy discovered the
firing,
they turned
their
searchlights on our
planes,
located
and
started
after
them.
Captain
Morrison
obeyed
orders
and
retreated
rapidly
with
the
other
planes following.
He made straight for Detroit to the
vicinity of main buildings and factory
districts with
the enemy planes in hot pursuit.
Suddenly he received
a radio message from Supreme Commander Gordon to
descend very low and fly l^orthwest.
At this time the
Supreme Commander was in communication with Col-
onel Kennelworth and they had adjusted
the Tunnel
machines and established the Tunnel thru the Air.
Supreme Commander Gordon was atop one of De-
troit's giant skyscrapers over 80 stories high watching
the action of the enemy planes.
Suddenly he saw the
first
battalion
of more than 250
planes, which were
flying in a wedge formation, dive into the Tunnel.
He
followed them with the Radium Ray and saw immedi-
ately that the Tunnel was doing
its work and that the
giant battle planes were now powerless,
l^ext came the
three giant supply ships.
Following the same course as
the bombing planes, they dived into the Tunnel thru the
Air and were powerless to proceed further.
Once the
planes were in the Tunnel, they were unable to com-
municate with headquarters or make any move because
the Tunnel was a complete vacuum and no plane could
move in it except the American planes which understood
the combination how to navigate thru the Tunnel.
As
soon as Supreme Commander Gordon saw that the great
Tunnel machines were doing their miraculous work, he

--- PAGE 357 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
847
sent another defiant message to tlie enemy headquarters
in Chicago and St. Louis:
We have given your first battalion a wonderful Thanksgiv-
ing
reception.
Won't you send some more
of your famous
aviators to have Thanksgiving supper with us.
Immediately after this message was received, the com-
manding generals ordered a message sent to the supply
ships which were supposed to be anchored over Detroit,
asking information as to what was happening.
No re-
ply was
received.
This
caused
consternation
in
the
enemy camp.
They knew that the
first battalion had
either been captured or destroyed. The news was quickly
flashed to headquarters in the City of Mexico and Gen-
eral l^agato replied:
"This
is some
devilish trick
of
that genius, Gordon.
Be careful what move you make.
Send out scouting planes around Detroit and ascertain
what
is going
on.''
Their fast cruising scouters were
immediately dispatched to Detroit to see what had hap-
pened
to
the bombing
planes
and
the mother
ships.
These planes soon came in view of the Kadium Eay.
After circling high over Detroit, finally came lower and
lower until suddenly they plunged into the Tunnel thru
the Air and like the others, were powerless to move or to
communicate with their headquarters.
Supreme
Commander Gordon
decided
to
take
no
chances with the captured
planes which were
in the
Tunnel thru the Air and ordered the sleeping gas turned
on to put all the aviators to sleep for seven days.
After
waiting till after 12 o'clock for further attacks and find-
ing the air clear with no signs of the enemy in
sight,

--- PAGE 358 of 432 ---

S48
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
he decided to retire and get some sleep.
This was the
greatest day since the beginning of the war.
He was
very happy and knelt to offer his thanks to Almighty God.
He said:
*Tord, thou workest in mysterious ways thy
wonders to perform.
I know that by faith and thru
faith were all things made.
I have put my trust and
my confidence in
thee.
Thou hast guided me safely
and helped me protect my country in time of greatest
need.
God, not my will, but thine be done, but
if
it
be thy
will,
I pray
thee that when these
trials and
troubles pass away and once the United Kingdom of
the World
is established and
all men live as brothers
according to the law of love,
it be a part of thy divine
plan to return to me in safety my beloved Marie. Guide
me in this great task to protect and save my country
from the enemies who would destroy
it.
Amen."
ISTovember 25th, 1931, was a great day for the United
States.
They had more to be thankful for than any day
since l!^ovember, 1918, when the great World War had
come to a close.
After conferring with his commanding
officers and Government
officials. Supreme Commander
Gordon gave orders that no newspapers were to be per-
mitted to publish anything about the attack upon De-
troit, that it was to be kept strictly a secret.
There was not much to be thankful for in the camp
of the enemy.
Failure of any of the planes sent out
the night before to return and no message being received
from them, made
it plain that the United
States was
not bluffing and that Supreme Commander Gordon knew
what he had up his sleeve when he hurled defiance at
the enemy and refused to accept any terms.
They were

--- PAGE 359 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
349
not aware of the fact that when he defied them to come
and take Detroit, he must have been anxiously awaiting
the attack and had something new that he wanted to try
out on the enemy planes, and that
it had been success-
ful.
It was now a time to move cautiously.
The next
and future moves must be made in a way to conserve
their resources and assure final success.
Everything was quiet and no move or attack was made
until December
7th, when the enemy
held a
council
and decided that a gigantic attack on Detroit should be
made ; that they should concentrate a large part of their
forces there;
destroy the
factories and take Detroit;
then proceed to attack !N"ew York and the Eastern Coast.
The plan was to make a daylight attack and, if possible,
to
surprise Supreme Commander Gordon.
About
3
o'clock in the afternoon the enemy planes were seen ap-
proaching from the East and West.
He saw that this
was to be a gigantic attack because there was a larger
number of planes than they had used at any time since
the attack of Chicago.
Before he could get the Tunnel
machines in working order and establish a wider range
in the Tunnel thru the Air, the enemy planes had begun
dropping bombs on the outskirts of the
city and had
destroyed many of the smaller buildings.
The United
States planes were
attacked and being unable to
rise
to the heights at which the enemy planes were flying,
a great many of our planes went down, but in a few
minutes the Tunnel thru the Air was in working order
and the enemy planes began to be drawn into it.
Within
less than an hour more than 2500 planes had been cap-
tured.
The loss of life around the city had been small

--- PAGE 360 of 432 ---

350
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
because
the bombs wbicb had been dropped had
not
reached the thickly populated sections of the city and no
plane had been able to reach the factories or business
sections where the large buildings were. The Tunnel thru
the Air was protecting and keeping them away from
these sections.
Canadian planes had come to the assist-
ance of the United States on the ISTorthern border and
were patrolling the other side of the river and preventing
the enemy from attacking from the
ISTorth.
About 5 o'clock, the gigantic concentrated attack took
place.
It was
estimated
that
there were more than
25,000 planes of the enemy in this attack.
They were
supported by about 10 supply ships which sailed
at a
great distance and were attempting to anchor.
Supreme
Commander Gordon knew that it was necessary to sacri-
fice some of the American planes in order to draw this
attacking force into the Tunnel thru the Air.
He sent
more than 1000 of our best planes to meet the attack
and lead the enemy in the right direction.
The enemy
turned loose their large 12-inch guns and they destroyed
our ships rapidly.
Planes were falling all over Detroit.
The people were very much frightened and thought that
this was going to be another
disaster such as had oc-
curred in Chicago.
Finally Captain Morrison changed
plans and led the enemy toward the Tunnel thru the
Air.
Soon more than 10,000 of their planes had gone
into the Tunnel never to return again.
T\Tien this large
fleet of planes went down and evidently were no longer
able to communicate with the giant supply ships which
•were not yet anchored, the enemy quickly changed plans
and the supply ships sailed back toward Chicago,
fol-

--- PAGE 361 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
361
lowed by the balance of tbe invading fleet which had not
been captured.
When all reports were in, Supreme Commander Gor-
don found that the United States had
lost about 400
of their best planes, but had captured more than 12,000
of the enemy planes.
He was very greatly elated over
this
victory
because he knew
that when
the enemy
planes
retreated,
it was the
first time they had ever
returned to their base without a report of victory.
He
felt that
this would break the morale of the enemy;
make them more cautious in the future ; give him more
time now to complete his invisible airplane and the one
which would rise to any altitude.
When this was com-
pleted
together with
other machines
for
establishing
Tunnels thru the Air, the balance would be easy and
a mere question of time until the enemy could
all be
destroyed or put to sleep.
People thruout the United
States were still in a panicky, restless state.
Ever since
the
attacks
at Los Angeles, San
Francisco,
Chicago,
Kansas
City,
IsTew Orleans and the Southern part of
Texas, every large and small town all over the country
had remained in a state of fear, expecting an attack at
any moment.
LIundreds
of thousands
of people had
moved from the Pacific Coast and from the Central and
Eastern parts of the United States into the mountains
of the West and the Grand Canyon.
They
felt that
there were no large cities and nothing to attack around
the Grand Canyon and that
it was the safest place to
go.
Thousands of people were living in tents and there
was a great scarcity of food and much suffering.
Supreme Commander Gordon decided that the people

--- PAGE 362 of 432 ---

352
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
should be given some encouragement and that the news
of the failure of the second attack upon Detroit should be
given to the newspapers; thought
it would encourage
and cheer the people.
On the morning of December 8th,
all the newspapers thruout the United States, carried big
headlines: "DETROIT ATTACKED THE SECOND
TIME BY THE ENEMY EORCES BUT
DE-
FEATED.
THOUSANDS OF THEIR PLANES
HAVE BEEN CAPTURED. THERE HAS BEEN
PRACTICALLY NO LOSS OF LIFE AND NO
IMPORTANT BUILDINGS DESTROYED.'^
The
papers emphasized the fact that this meant the turn of
the war and that the placing of Supreme Commander
Gordon at the head of our forces had saved the country
and that there was no longer need for any great alarm.
It was a question of only a few months
till the war
would be over and the enemy would be driven from
our soil.
The defeat at the second attack of Detroit had indeed
put the fear of God in the hearts of the Enemy, but
they had not by any means lost hope.
They were get-
ting recruits rapidly from Europe.
Every nation was
building airplanes
as
fast
as the factories could turn
them out and sending them to the United States to aid
their
allies.
Practically every nation on the
face
of
the earth, outside of France, Canada and a few coun-
tries
in
South
America
and
Australia,
had
joined
against the United States.
This encouraged the Enemy
and they
felt that no matter what the United
States
had,
in the end they would not be able to win.
The
great problem now was to find out what the Americans

--- PAGE 363 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
S53
were using in order to capture the enemy planes and
what discovery they had to prevent their communica-
tions.
The Enemy were unable to
find out anything
about the American plans.
They demanded
to know
what had happened
to the captured
aviators, whether
they were living or dead.
Supreme Commander Gor-
don refused to give any information whatsoever about
prisoners ; replied that reports of anything in regard to
prisoners or planes would be made after the war was
over and
after the Enemy had surrendered and were
ready to leave our soil.
This greatly aroused the Jap-
anese, Spanish and Germans who decided to redouble
their efforts to take Detroit and then attack the Eastern
Coast of the United States.
iDays went by and everything was quiet in Detroit.
'No attacks were made anywhere in the United States.
December 25th, 1931, arrived and the United States had
much to be thankful for.
There was a great rejoicing
and
merry-making
on
Christmas.
Supreme
Com-
mander Gordon had
a
great
Christmas.
The Major
Electric Co. had been working on the process for mak-
ing planes invisible and reported to him that they had
completed the process according to his plans and that
it was a success.
They had also completed a new motor
which he had designed with 24 cylinders.
This motor
was to be used in lifting our planes to great heights.
It
was estimated that
it would carry a ship 50 miles in
the air if necessary. A stabilizer and anchor had been
completed
in accordance with his plans.
The Major
Electric Co. informed him that these machines were all
ready for him to
test
out.
He ordered these new
in-

--- PAGE 364 of 432 ---

354
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
ventions to be sent to New York headquarters. A large
24-cylinder motor was placed in "Marie the Angel of
Mercy'' and she was made an invisible airship.
This
motor was able to take its power from the air.
Supreme Commander Gordon went to New York on
January 1st, 1932, leaving Colonel Morrison in charge
in Detroit and ordering General Pearson to Detroit to
hold the fort until he completed the test in New York.
Supreme
Commander
Gordon
accompanied
only
by
Colonel Edna Kennelworth made
the
first
flight
in
"Marie the Angel of Mercy,'' ascended to a height of
more than 20 miles and anchored the "Marie" in the
air.
The new inventions were a perfect success and the
machine could rise to any height and anchor and remain
as long as
it was desired and was absolutely invisible.
He was now in position to construct a Tunnel thru
the Air from New York to Europe and sail the "Marie"
in safety thru it, then rise to a height of 20 to 50 miles
over any
of the
cities,
anchor and
start
destruction.
"Marie the Angel of Mercy" could carry enough sleep-
ing gas to destroy or put to sleep people over thousands
of miles of territory.
After remaining anchored in the
air for two days to test "Marie the Angel of Mercy,"
Supreme Commander Gordon descended to New York,
anchored
at the Mammouth Building to get
a
report
of what had been happening and prepare for any attack.
The Enemy were keeping quiet and making no move,
evidently trying
to
find out what America's new
in-
ventions were before making the next great attack.
"Marie the Angel of Mercy" was now equipped with
the Tunnel machine which would automatically put a

--- PAGE 365 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
S55
Tunnel tliru the Air anywhere in any direction.
The
Supreme Commander had enlarged and improved upon
the Tunnel machine or vacuum until
it could be made
25 to 50 miles wide in any direction from a large city.
He had also discovered how to send ships thru the air
without an aviator, directing them by radio rays, which
would enable them to distribute sleeping gas among the
enemy's
lines and prevent
loss of any of his valuable
aviators.
He now had confidence that every city would
be safe from an attack and no destruction could take
place.
The Henry Motor Co. and the Major Electric
Co. were ordered to manufacture more of the Tunnel
machines just as fast as possible so that one might be
placed in each city in Boston, 'New York, Philadelphia,
Pittsburgh, Washington and Savannah, Ga., to protect
the Eastern Coast of the United
States.
It was the
opinion
of
Supreme
Commander
Gordon
that
the
Enemy would eventually concentrate their final attacks
on the Eastern shores of the United States and
if un-
successful in attacking JSTew York and Washington, the
war would be over.
He intended to be fully prepared
so that the United States would emerge victorious with-
out much loss of life and was especially trying to protect
the women and children in the large cities.
Eebruary
15,
1932—Supreme Commander Gordon
was informed by the Henry Motor Co. and Major Elec-
tric Co. that the Tunnel machines were completed, that
gas-distributing machines and equipment
for sending
airplanes by radio ray without an aviator to distribute
the sleeping gas were ready for delivery.
Two more
"Demon of Death" machines were ready and ordered

--- PAGE 366 of 432 ---

356
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
sent
to Washington and Boston.
The Supreme Com-
mander was hourly
expecting
that
the enemy would
attack the Eastern Coast, concentrating on Boston, 'New
York and Washington.
The "Tel-Talk'' had recorded
conferences which had been held and plans which were
under way to concentrate the Enemy's combined forces
on the Eastern Coast.
He figured that they were trying
to make improvements to overcome the defeat
at De-
troit because the enemy had been mystified by the new
invention which had been used to capture so many of
their planes.
He was now ready and waiting for the
attack on the Eastern shore, feeling confident that he
was prepared for victory.

--- PAGE 367 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
357
CHAPTER XXXI
A PRIL
1st,
1932, arrived and no attack had been
XjL made.
The enemy was evidently making gigan-
tic preparations for an attack and Supreme Commander
Gordon decided to make the first move.
Tie then sent
instructions to France to begin attacking England and
Germany again.
France was well prepared with a large
number of airplanes.
The attack started and they were
successful.
When this news reached the enemy head-
quarters in the United States there was great consterna-
tion.
They thought that this was the secret behind the
United States refusing to accept peace terms, but
felt
that France could not hold out long alone.
Spain and
Japan ordered their reserve planes from home to Eng-
land and Germany to help
fight France.
The
"Tel-
TalF' recorded that a large fleet of planes had been sent
across the Atlantic to attack France.
Supreme Com-
mander Gordon ordered the French to go out and meet
the attack.
A great battle raged over the Atlantic for
hours with
the French winning.
Thousands
of
the
enemy planes went down into the ocean.
The Spanish
and Japanese withdrew.
This stopped Germany and
England from
striking
back
at
France.
The news
reached the enemy headquarters in the United
States
and they figured that in some way the United States had
a large number of planes out guarding the Atlantic and

--- PAGE 368 of 432 ---

358
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
realized that the time iiad come to strike at tlie Eastern
Coast of the United States before France and the United
States could do more damage on the other side.
In June,
1932, the enemy decided to make the
at-
tack on the Eastern part of the United States.
Supreme
Commander Gordon had time to make ample prepara-
tions to meet
it.
He had established Colonel Kennel-
worth in Boston with one of the sleeping-gas machines
and
he
remained
in New York
in
the Mammouth
Building, with a "Demon of Death," awaiting the
at-
tack upon ITew York.
Battle of Boston"
On June 6th, the enemy attacked Boston.
The planes
came
in
large numbers from every
side,
some from
across
the
water,
some from
the North
and
West.
Colonel Kennelworth
let them approach within a rea-
sonable distance and then turned loose the sleeping gas
among all the enemy planes.
The aviators immediately
went to sleep and the planes all dropped slowly to the
earth
and
some
landed
on
the water
and were
not
damaged.
Hundreds after hundreds of planes followed
up, each one sharing the same fate.
Of
all the planes
sent
out
by
the
enemy,
not
one
returned.
Colonel
Kennelworth reported to Supreme Commander Gordon
that Boston was safe,—that there had not been the loss
of one life and not a bomb had been dropped upon the
city.
The Commanders of the Allied Enemy armies were
unable to get any report of what had happened to the
planes that went to attack Boston. They waited until

--- PAGE 369 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
359
the next day ; and when not a plane returned and there
was no report of any kind, decided that the same fate
had befallen them as at the attack on Detroit ; that the
Americans certainly had something by which they were
destroying every ship and plane which attacked them.
This was unusual and unheard of.
The fact that thou-
sands and thousands of planes had attacked Boston and
not one had escaped capture or
destruction, made
it
plain that Yankee ingenuity had discovered something
that was turning the tide of war in their favor.
They
now knew that they had made the greatest mistake by
not pressing us hard after the fall of Chicago.
They
should have
refused
to
grant
the
15
days'
armistice
without demanding the surrender of the Eastern Coast.
Another great mistake was the long delay between the
attack on Detroit and the attack on Boston.
This had
enabled the Americans to get better prepared.
There
was no denying the painful
truth.
Something must
be done and done quickly.
They decided to order every
plane that could possibly be spared from the
Pacific
Coast and from the lines extending from l^ew Orleans
to
St.
Louis and
Chicago;
to
concentrate
a supreme
attack upon "New York and Washington, making Wash-
ington the
final
goal.
Planes were concentrated and
mother
ships anchored
out
in the Atlantic Ocean to
prepare for the attack upon IN'ew York City.
This was
to be the greatest battle in all history.
On the night of June Yth, Supreme Commander Gor-
don had grown tired from his long vigil waiting for
an attack upon "New York.
He placed Colonel Edna
Kennelworth in charge of the ^^Demon of Death'' while

--- PAGE 370 of 432 ---

360
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AHl
he went to get a few hours' sleep.
While he was sleep-
ing, the "Tel-Talk" machine and the secret radio com-
municator hegan to work
Colonel Edna Kennelworth
listened in and soon had the plans of the enemy.
She
knew that Supreme Commander Gordon needed rest and
she
did
not awaken him
until
early
next
morning.
When he entered the headquarters on top of the Mam-
mouth Building, she saluted him and said, "Supreme
Commander Gordon, this is going to be a great birthday
for you.
The enemy is going to attack New York City
with probably
100,000
airplanes and you and I
are
alone to defend
it.
It will be the day of
all days for
you.''
He replied : "I had forgotten all about my birth-
day.
We have been
so busy preparing for the
final
attacks of the enemy that I have had no time to think
of myself.''
She reminded him that five years ago he
arrived in ISTew York just after his birthday, then of
the birthday parties that they had had since and that
always something unusual happened around his birth-
day.
"You remember the birthday party we had the
year Walter and I were married.
Last year we had too
much trouble to think of your birthday.
The enemy
was sweeping up the Mississippi, making complete de-
etruction and taking every city ; but there was something
eventful around your birthday.
About that time you
discovered how to take electricity from the air and com-
pleted
the machine
for sending an
electric
discharge
into
the
water which
destroyed
the
battleships
and
hydroplanes
of
the enemy
at
Cairo.
This was
our
greatest victory up to that time, and while the disaster
at Chicago and St. Louis followed,
it gave us the first

--- PAGE 371 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
361
ray of hope.
!N'ow, one year later, complete victory
is
in sight.
I know that you have supreme faith in our
new machines and that our recent successes will be fol-
lowed by greater successes.
This attack upon 'New York
is going to be the greatest in history because the gain
will be the
greatest should
the enemy win.
Should
they fail their cause
is
lost, and they will fail."
She
saw that Supreme Commander Gordon was very happy
and that there was a note of confidence
in his
tone.
While she shuddered to think of what might happen if
they should
fail, she knew that Supreme Commander
Gordon had great confidence in the ^^Demon of Death'^
and the sleeping gas machine and knew what they would
do, because he alone knew
all the secrets of working
these machines.
lAt
8
o'clock on the evening of June
8th, Supreme
Commander Gordon stood near the ^^Demon of Death''
watching his different instruments and soon noticed on
the other side of the room the radio interceptor start
to work.
He stepped up to
it and listened, caught the
orders
going from
the
different enemy
headquarters,
giving
instructions
for the combined
attack on l^ew
York City
at 10 o'clock that night.
He immediately
gave instructions for
all the electric lights to be kept
on all night and all buildings to be well lighted to show
his confidence and let the enemy know that he expected
the attack.
Colonel Edna Kennelworth was ordered to
instruct
all army headquarters to send radio messages
to the enemy that Supreme Commander Gordon had
ordered the City of New York and all buildings lighted
up for the night
so that they would not miss the city

--- PAGE 372 of 432 ---

362
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
and that lie awaited their coming with pleasure.
Asked
them not
to overlook the Mammouth Building which
was 110
stories high;
that he would be there
alone,
waiting for them to destroy the building.
GiGAiTTic Attack on !N'ew York City
When the news reached the enemy, they knew that in
some way their plans had leaked
out, but
it was too
late now to make any change and to delay attack might
mean
defeat
later,
so
the
orders
were
carried
out.
About
10
minutes
after
10
o'clock.
Supreme
Com-
mander Gordon sighted the
first
airplane of the
fleet
approaching 40 or 50 miles up the Hudson River.
He
watched them until they got within about 20 miles of
!N"ew York City, near Yonkers, then he slowly swung
the "Demon of Death" around on the revolving base
and turned on the rays,
at the same time starting the
sleeping gas machine working.
He swept the territory
for 50 or 60 miles in every direction, and as the rays
from the "Demon of Death" struck the enemy planes,
their motors leaped into a liquid flame.
Supreme Com-
mander Gordon saw that the "Demon of Death" was
doing its work so he pressed a button and Colonel Edna
Kennelworth appeared.
He told her to put on power-
ful glasses and to look at the planes going down.
One
by one she saw the motors dissolved by the flame from
the rays of the "Demon of Death" and the planes fall-
ing, one by one, to the ground.
A few minutes after the JSTorthem army was wiped
out, the signal came that a great fleet of airplanes was
making
its way across Long Island Sound.
Supreme

--- PAGE 373 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
363
Commander
Gordon swung
the "Demon
of
Death"
around and watched the approach of the enemy planes
as they came out from the Atlantic Ocean and crossed
Fire Island.
He
let them get within 30 to 40 miles
as they came up across the Great South Bay, then he
again turned loose the "Demon of Death."
Swiftly the
planes went down in flames, ending the attack from the
ocean.
He watched
a
little while
longer and saw
across
Staten Island another flock of planes which he knew
was coming from
Southern
headquarters. He
called
Colonel
Edna
Kennelworth
and
said:
"This
time
you may operate
^Spitfire'
and
destroy
the
Southern
wing."
She was a
little nervous
at
first but knowing
what
this
great machine could
do,
she turned
it
on,
slowly lowered and raised
it, moving to the right and
left, until she gauged the distance of the approaching
planes.
One by one she saw their motors turn to liquid
fire and sink to the earth.
Turning to Supreme Com-
mander Gordon
she
said,
"Look."
He
focused
his
powerful glasses toward the South and saw that the air
was
clear.
Turning around he said: "Edna, you are
a wonderful woman and I am happy to have you take
this part in saving your country.
This
is the day of
women and their influence must help to win war for-
ever."
"It seems a shame," she replied, "that the lives
of
all these brave men from
so many nations should
be sacrificed.
Among the planes that went down by the
thousands,
I
could
see some were
English,
German,
Spanish,
Austrian,
Eussian,
Japanese,
Turkish,
and
Arabian planes.
Certainly almost the entire world
is

--- PAGE 374 of 432 ---

364
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
against us and we are winning.
This must mean the
end of the war.
While I know that
it is God's plan to
teach man a lesson so that he will cease to go to war
any more,
it does seem a shame that we should take the
lives of any more of these innocent men who are forced
by selfish rulers of their countries to attack us."
'^You are quite right/' the Supreme Commander said.
"Your noble husband invented the sleeping gas because
it was my desire to protect my country and win the war
with as
little loss of life as possible.
From this time
on, no more lives will be sacrificed.
We will use the
sleeping gas, put
all the attacking aviators to sleep for
seven days and the war
will soon be
over.
I know
that there will be another final attack upon 'New York
in
a few minutes and
I am going to
allow you the
honor of using the sleeping gas machine and ending
the final attack upon the great City of New York with-
out loss of any life."
About the time that Colonel Kennelworth was trans-
ferred from Cincinnati to Boston, General Pearson had
been sent to Cincinnati to operate the Tunnel machine
from
there.
Immediately
before the
final
attack on
New York City, Supreme Commander Gordon ordered
General Pearson to swing the Tunnel machine to the
East and establish a Tunnel thru the Air between New
York and Cincinnati, informing him that the expected
the final attack upon IsTew York would come over the
mountains of Pennsylvania and that
this
final
attack
would be from the West
; that he wanted a Tunnel thru
;
the Air at least 30 miles wide so that he could protect
the Jersey
shores and prevent the
attack upon
ISTew

--- PAGE 375 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
365
York City.
In a few minutes a test was made and tlie
Tunnel was ready to receive the invading army of planes
and airships.
He knew that ISlew York was now safe
and awaited the final combined
attack of the Enemy
planes that would come across from St. Louis and Chi-
cago to meet on the Western side of the Hudson River.
About 12 o'clock he sighted the enemy planes across
the Western coast of Jersey moving in triangle form,
and knew that it was the combined forces with probably
more than
50,000
planes ready
for
the
final
attack.
Swiftly they approached, closer and closer.
He played
his powerful
searchlight upon their glistening wings,
until they were within 15 to 20 miles of 'New York.
Fearing
that
they
might
start
dropping
bombs
on
l^ewark, Jersey City and the towns on the other side
before
attacking New York,
he adjusted the Tunnel
thru the Air until it was high enough to reach the enemy
planes
fiying
at
the highest
altitude;
then turned
to
Colonel Edna Kennelworth and
said: "Turn on
the
sleeping gas machine.
The Tunnel is ready and as the
aviators go to sleep, the machines will plunge into the
Tunnel thru the Air and remain suspended without the
planes being destroyed or the loss of any
lives.
This
will be a silent, painless victory, but it will demonstrate
our power to the enemy and the world."
Slowly and
carefully,
with
a trembling hand,
she
swung the powerful gas distributing machine into action
and as she saw the planes coming by the thousands begin
slowly
to plunge
into
the Tunnel thru the
Air,
she
thought of how she had risked her life taking the sleep-
ing gas for seven days to prove
its success for the love

--- PAGE 376 of 432 ---

366
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
of her husband, who invented
it, and for the love of
her country.
She thought of Supreme Commander Gor-
don naming his great ship '^Marie the Angel of Mercy"
and then realized what was in his mind
at the time;
that
the
sleeping gas
should be named
the "God
of
Mercy'' because
it was winning the war in a humane
way without taking human lives.
Her mind went back
to the great destruction of Los Angeles and San Fran-
cisco and above
all, she remembered the
loss of more
than
a
million
lives
at
the
battle
of
Chicago; how
merciless the enemy had been, sparing not the lives of
women or children. We were now indeed merciful unto
our foes and heaping coals of fire upon their heads and
she believed this would be a great example to the world.
She knew that the enemy had used poisoned gas of
all
kinds,
poisoning
the water and foods
in the various
cities and resorted to every means to destroy both life
and property.
As these thoughts were
flitting thru her mind,
bat-
talion
after battalion of planes followed and she was
pouring the sleeping gas into the noses of the aviators
and the planes were diving into the Tunnel.
This was
indeed a great victory and she was glad to help accom-
plish
it without the
loss
of
life.
The
great Tunnel
machines had worked successfully and perfectly.
The
sleeping gas had done
its silent, painless work and the
army
of more than
50,000
planes—the
giant
attack
from the West—rested safely in the Tunnel thru the
Air, not a single one having escaped.
At 12
: 30 the sky in the West was clear and there was
not an enemy plane in sight in any direction.
During

--- PAGE 377 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
367
tlie minutes
of
tlie
final
battle Supreme Commander
Gordon had remained as motionless as a statue, stand-
ing
with
his hand upon
the
levers
of
the
Tunnel
machine, with the powerful searchlights playing upon
the enemy planes, and watching thru his
field glasses
the planes as they dived swiftly into the Tunnel thru
the Air
after the
aviators
inhaled
the
sleeping
gas.
When the last plane had landed safely in the Tunnel,
his
features relaxed and
his
face showed
a
smile
of
victory.
His
first
thought
was
of
Marie,
his
next
thought was
of
his
old
friend
Walter
Kennelworth.
He
sent
the
first
message
of
the
victory
over
his
secret radio
to him.
"The enemy has
attacked iN'ew
York from four sides, more than 100,000 strong.
The
^Demon
of Death'
has
done
its
work.
The Tunnel
machines have performed a miracle.
More than 50,000
aviators are sleeping in our nets.
Your great discovery
has made
this
a painless
victory.
Edna, your noble
wife, performed the painless herculean task and played
her part in the final stage of the great victory."
On receiving this message Colonel Kennelworth was
overjoyed, knowing that
it meant that the end of the
war was near.
His reply was brief—^^Congratulations,
Robert Gordon.
Love to Edna.
I hope that you may
yet have Marie to share with you in the great victory."
Supreme Commander Gordon's next thought was of
General Pearson who had been his friend and had saved
his life after his capture by the Japanese at the battle
of San Francisco.
The next informed him of the great
victory.
This was the greatest news that General Pear-
son had ever received in his life.
He felt doubly happy

--- PAGE 378 of 432 ---

368
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
because
lie had had faith in Robert Gordon from the
first and had been the one to offer to turn over his com-
mand and authority to Gordon and make him Supreme
Commander.
He
answered:
"Supreme Commander
Gordon, our country made no mistake when they placed
their fate in your hands.
My faith in you has been
supreme and I had confidence in you from the
first
time I met you.
Accept my sincerest gratitude for the
great service that you have rendered our country.
You
deserve all the honor and reward that we can give you."
When reports came to headquarters in Washington
that the enemy had attacked E'ew York with more than
100,000 airplanes; that they had
all been destroyed or
captured; that ISFew York was safe, and prepared for
further attacks, there was great rejoicing.
The Presi-
dent of the United
States hurried to the War
Office,
ordered the swiftest plane to convey him to l^ew York
City to congratulate Supreme Commander Gordon.
He
was given a fast plane which could travel more than
300 miles per hour.
After the last attack and Supreme Commander Gor-
don had relaxed from the terrific strain, he walked to
his desk and picked up the Bible.
Turning to Ezekiel
5
: 2, he read
:
"Thou shalt burn with fire a third part
in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are
fulfilled; and thou shalt take a third part, and smite
about
it with
a
knife;
and
a
third
part
thou
shalt
scatter in the wind ; and I will draw out a sword after
them."
He knew that Ezekiel was talking about the
Tunnel thru the Air and the scattering of a third part
of the army in wind and that they were caught while

--- PAGE 379 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
369
traveling in the Tunnel thru
tlie Air.
Then he read
Chapter
17 : 3
:
"Thus
saith
the Lord God, A
great
eagle with great wings, long-winged,
full of feathers,
which had divers colours, came unto Lehanon, and took
the
highest branch
of the cedar."
This
referred
to
Uncle Sam, the great eagle that was winning the war.
The cedar referred to the tall building of 110 stories
where Supreme Commander Gordon now had his head-
quarters.
He next read Ezekiel 31
: 4: "The waters made him
great, the deep set him up on high with her rivers run-
ning round
about
his
plants, and
sent
out her
little
rivers unto
all the trees of the field."
He knew that
this referred to England when she had been the mistress
of the seas, but that Uncle Sam had proved to be the
eagle of the air and would conquer
all nations on the
face of the earth.
He read Ezekiel 33
: 21
: "And it came to pass in the
twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, in the
fifth day of the month,
that one had escaped out
of
Jerusalem came unto me, saying, The city is smitten."
He interpreted this to mean the City of Chicago where
the enemy gained their last great victory.
Then read Ezekiel 37: 22: "And I will make them
one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel;
and one king shall be king to them all ; and they shall
be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided
into two kingdoms, any more at all."
He was sure that
this meant
that
l^orth and
South America were
to
unite all nations of the world and that there was to be
one ruler, one king, and he was God.

--- PAGE 380 of 432 ---

370
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
He continued with
Ezekiel
39:11:
"And
it
shall
come to pass in that day, that I will give unto Gog a
place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passen-
gers on the east of the sea; and
it shall stop the noses
of the passengers; and there shall they bury Gog, and
all his multitude ; and they shall call
it. The Valley of
Hamon-gog."
He thought
that
this
referred
to
the
battle of New York.
Where
it said "it shall stop the
noses of the passengers,"
this referred to the sleeping
gas, which had
caused
the
aviators
to
fall
into the
Tunnel thru the Air, and indeed the multitude had been
buried above the valley and meadows of New Jersey.
Again in the 39th Chapter: 9th verse:
"Shall go forth
and
shall
set on
fire and burn the weapons, both the
shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and
the handstaves and the spears, and they shall burn them
with
fire seven
years.'^
This meant the "Demon
of
Death'' which had burned up the motors of the attack-
ing airplanes.
He then wondered when the war would
end.
He
knew that Daniel's 70 weeks indicated the end in 1932,
or about 3% years from the time that war
first broke
out in Europe in 1928.
He read Daniel 7:12:
"As
concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their domin-
ion taken away:
yet their lives were prolonged for a
season and time."
And again the 25th verse:
"And
he shall speak great words against the Most High, and
shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and think
to change times and laws ; and they shall be given into
his hand, until a time and times and the dividing of
time."
He had proved by study and comparing past

--- PAGE 381 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
371
cycles that a time or a season referred to in the Bible
meant 360 days, 360 years, or 360 degrees,—a measure
known and used by the astrologers in olden times and
still
understood and used by modern
astrologers
for
measuring
time.
He knew
that
half
a time meant
180 degrees, 180 days or years, because Ezekiel had said
that the Lord had appointed a day for a year.
He
figured that America began with the discovery by Co-
lumbus in 1492 and that in October,
1932, would be
440 years since the discovery.
The measurement used
thruout the Bible was by
scores and man's span
of
life was three score years and ten, and that four hun-
dred and forty years equalled twenty-two scores, leav-
ing two scores, or forty years, more for the completion
of the jubilee years.
He read Matthew 18:21 and 22
:
"Then came Peter to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall
my brother
sin
against me, and I
forgive him?
till
seven times?
Jesus
saith unto him,
I
say not unto
thee. Until seven times ; but. Until seventy times seven."
Robert
figured
that
seventy
times
seven meant
four
hundred and ninety years from the discovery of Amer-
ica until we would cease fighting, forgive our brothers
and live in peace.
He knew that the seventh period
was always a jubilee period, that there was a jubilee
period
of seven years
at the end
of each
forty-ninth
year period and that there was a great period of forty-
nine jubilee years
at the end of seven times seventy;
that the sixth period would end in 1933 and that from
1933 to 1982 would be the forty-nine years of the great
jubilee following the end of wars and the United King-
dom of the World.

--- PAGE 382 of 432 ---

37^
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
He read Daniel 7:25: "And
lie
shall speak great
words against the Most High, and shall wear out the
saints of the Most High, and think to change times and
laws: and they
shall be given
into his hand,
until a
time and times and the dividing of time."
Then read
Daniel 12:7: "And I heard the man clothed in linen,
which was upon the waters of the river, when he held
up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and
sware by him that liveth for ever, that
it shall be for a
time, times, and an half; and when he shall have ac-
complished to scatter the power of the holy people,
all
these things shall be finished."
He figured that a time
equalled twenty years or a score, and that a time, times,
equalled four hundred years, and half a time equalled
ten years.
Again, Daniel 12:11 and 12:
"And from the time
that the daily
sacrifice
shall be taken away, and the
abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days.
Blessed
is
he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hun-
dred and five and thirty days."
Twelve hundred and
ninety days are to be added to the time the war broke
out in Europe in 1928 and the thirteen hundred and
thirty-five days being forty-five days more, the blessed
jubilee days will follow from the time the war ended
in 1932 until the great celebration and signing of peace
and
establishing
the
brotherhood
of man.
He
read
Daniel
9
: 24
:
"Seventy weeks
are
determined upon
thy people, and upon thy holy city, to finish the trans-
gression,
and
to make an end
of
sins,
and
to make
reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting
I

--- PAGE 383 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
373
rigliteoiisness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy,
and to anoint the Most Holy."
This again proved that four hundred and ninety years
from the discovery of America, that there should be an
end of sins, an end of war and of troublesome times.
Ezekiel 4
: 6 and 6
:
^Tor I have laid upon thee the
years of their iniquity, according to the number of the
days, three hundred and ninety days
; so shalt thou bear
the iniquity of the house of
Israel.
And when thou
hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side, and
thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty
days
: I have appointed thee each day for a year."
This
made
it plain that a day was to be used in measuring
years and that there were to be forty days or forty years
after peace for a jubilee period in which the sins of the
past were to be atoned for.
Ten years
after
the
armistice
in
!N'ovember,
1918,
would bring us to l^ovember, 1928, or half a score, and
from ISTovember, 1928 to 1932 are indicated the trouble-
some times for the United States.
May, 1928 to July,
1928, are very important and troublesome periods when
the
nominations
for
President
of
the United
States
will
arouse the
people
and
start
a time
of
trouble.
Using the time of three score years and ten, and doub-
ling this period, maMng one hundred and forty years
and adding it to 1Y76, the Declaration of Independence,
brought us to the election of Wilson in 1916 and the
war followed in 1917.
The next score from this period
ends in 1936.
'New York
City was
evacuated by
the
British on
November 25, 1783.
If we add three periods of forty-

--- PAGE 384 of 432 ---

S74*
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
nine years to this,
it will bring us to 1930, the starting
of the war against the United States which ended with
the final attack on New York City in 1932.
!N"ew York City was founded
in
1614.
Adding a
period of six times forty-nine brings us to 1908 and
adding 24% years or one-half the time of forty-nine
years, brings us to 1932, when the name of the city was
again changed.
The
last
half of the seventh period
of forty-nine
years,
or from the dividing of time,
is
another jubilee period for JSTew York City
The first English settlement in the United States was
established by Raleigh at Roanoke, Virginia, in 1585.
Adding the seventh forty-nine year period, or 343 yearSj
brings us to 1928, indicating more troublesome times
to start.
The smaller cycles and seven-year periods .mentioned
so often in the Bible,
also indicated that twice seven,
or fourteen years from 1914 would bring war
agaia
in 1928, and adding half a period of a cycle of seven,
or forty-two months, would indicate the duration of the
war,
as spoken of by Daniel in the dividing of times
and seasons.
Robert figured that after October, 1932, there would
be only three years left to prepare for the great feast of
the jubilee of the maximum period which was to follow
the
establishment
of
universal
peace.
He was
very
happy because he felt that we were now near the end
of the war and these troublesome times.

--- PAGE 385 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
S75
CHAPTER XXXII
A BOUT 4 A.M. the President of the United States
_ir\.
landed
on
the Mammouth
Building
in
"New
York and was taken down in the elevator to the 110th
floor to Supreme Commander Gordon's office.
He found
Colonel Edna Kennelworth sentinel
at the door.
She
had met the President before and
after saluting him
asked if he wished to see Supreme Commander Gordon.
He replied that he did and she immediately conducted
him to his private office.
The President rushed in and found Supreme Com-
mander Gordon sitting peacefully reading a newspaper.
The President could hardly believe it and asked him for
the facts of the attack upon ]^ew York City and if all
enemy
planes
had
been
destroyed.
Supreme
Com-
mander Gordon told the President that
it was a fact.
The President asked Supreme Commander Gordon
if
there had been any losses to our airplane
fleet in de-
stroying the enemy and where our
fleet was now
lo-
cated. The Supreme Commander pointed to the "Demon
of Death"
and
the
sleeping
gas machines and
said:
"There
is the
fleet which has destroyed and captured
probably 100,000
of the enemy's
planes.
Mr.
Presi-
dent, would you like to go on a
little sight-seeing ex-
pedition ?"
The President said that he would. A but-
ton was pressed and in a few minutes "Marie the Angel
of Mercy," Robert's big ship, appeared in front of the

--- PAGE 386 of 432 ---

376
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
window.
The
President
told
Supreme
Commander
Gordon that he had neither seen nor heard of such a ship
before and asked him where it came from.
Robert said,
"Mr.
President,
this
ship was
buijt according
to the
plan laid down by Ezekiel in the Bible.
I worked on
it for years and completed
it just before the war broke
out.
Its most useful work is yet to be done."
Supreme
Commander Gordon then explained fully the working
of the "Demon of Death" to the President.
They stepped upon board "Marie the Angel of Mercy,"
sailed out across Long Island, slowed the plane down,
drifted very low and passed over the thousands of air-
planes which had been destroyed.
They sailed over Staten Island and saw the wrecks of
the planes which had been destroyed there.
Then swung
up the Hudson River above Yonkers, descended close to
the water and anchored in the air.
The President had
never been on an airship that was anchored in the air
and was amazed at Supreme Comtmander Gordon's mar-
velous invention.
He handed the President a pair of
powerful field glasses and told him to take a look.
The
river was almost choked with the wrecks of the airplanes
which had gone down defying the "Demon of Death."
Bodies of aviators wearing the uniforms of the various
nations were floating upon the waters.
When the Su-
preme Commander explained to the President that he
believed that not one of the enemy's planes had escaped,
he marveled
at the wonderful invention and the fact
that two men and a lone woman could accomplish such
a feat.
Supreme Commander Gordon then said :
"Mr.
President, your greatest sight
is yet to come."

--- PAGE 387 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
377
He then started "Marie tlie Angel of Mercy," sailed
out across the New Jersey
hills, slowed down the big
ship and entered the Tunnel thru the Air.
There the
greatest
sight
that human
eyes
had
ever
witnessed
greeted
the
President.
They passed slowly thru the
Tunnel where there were thousands and thousands of
planes unharmed suspended in the air with the aviators
all sound asleep.
The Supreme Commander then said
:
"This work was done by the sleeping gas.
As this giant
horde of probably 50,000 planes moving in sections of
hundreds and thousands, one following
after another,
tried to attack IsTew York, General Pearson and myself
worked the Tunnel machines and Colonel Edna Ken-
nelworth operated the sleeping gas machine.
You can
see the effective work and our mission of mercy.
We
have not taken human life and have gained the greatest
victory
in
the
world.
These
aviators
will
sleep
for
seven days and then awake unharmed.
There will be
no
ill
effects of the sleeping gas.
We will of course
remove the airships and aviators to the Wilson,
Cool-
idge, Roosevelt, Lowden, Harding and Washington air-
fields and when they awake they will be our prisoners
and the enemy's airships will be in our possession."
The President was astounded. He had never dreamed
that man could make such marvelous inventions.
Turn-
ing to Supreme Commander Gordon and grasping his
hand, he said:
"You have been inspired by Almighty
God.
You are an instrument in his hands to save this
country according to God's plan."
The Supreme Com-
mander replied that he had always
felt that way and
had never taken any credit to himself;
that
since he

--- PAGE 388 of 432 ---

378
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
was about eight years old he had been reading the Bible
and knew from
it that this war was inevitable ; that he
had spent his time and money to complete these inven-
tions for the day his country would need them.
On the way back, Supreme Commander Gordon told
the President that the Marie the Angel of Mercy could
make a speed of 1000 miles an hour and that he could
easily go round the world in 24 hours.
On their return
all was quiet in New York City.
No one knew what had
happened that night. The President could not find words
to express his appreciation for this wonderful work.
He
asked the Supreme Commander what his future plans
were.
Supreme Commander Gordon told the President
to read the Bible, especially Daniel's prophecy and the
book of Ezekiel, and he would know what was yet to
take place.
It was agreed that the news of the success
with the ^'Demon of Death'' and the sleeping gas ma-
chine was to be kept secret and that the President was
the only one to know of Kobert's great invention.
The President returned to Washington on the fore-
noon of June 9th, feeling much elated over the wonder-
ful victory, proud of his native land and thankful that
the Divine Power had given them the man of the hour
at the right time.
It had been a great birthday for Robert, because his
country had been saved.
His years of labor had been
rewarded but yet no news had come
of Marie.
He
wondered if she were alive and if she had been watching
this terrible war, the greatest of
all with
its great de-
struction.
When the war was over and the world was
once more at peace, what would happen to him or what
I

--- PAGE 389 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
379
would
lie do?
It seemed to him that when the war
was
over,
his
life work would be
finished.
Without
Marie,
there would be nothing
left, nothing more to
work for. Supreme Commander Gopdon knew that there
would be no more attacks that day, so he ordered Colonel
Edna Kennelworth to get some
sleep.
He communi-
cated with Colonel Kennelworth in Boston and found
that
there had
been no
further
attacks
there.
The
Colonel reported that he was ready and waiting to put
to sleep more of the enemy as soon as they arrived.
The
Allied Enemy
headquarters
at
the
different
points in the United States were absolutely without any
news as to what had happened to all the planes and air-
ships that had been sent out to attack New York, but
in this case, they felt that no news was good news.
They
were trying in every way with the wireless and radio
to reach the commanders of the different fleets but not
a word was received.
On the afternoon of June 9th, when not a word had
been heard from any of the ships or planes sent out the
night
before
to
destroy
ISTew York
City,
the
Allied
Enemy headquarters were in gloom.
Hope was giving
way to despair.
They feared that the disaster at De-
troit and Boston had been repeated.
General
ISTagato
was communicated with and his reply was
:
"This is a
great disappointment. We had all hoped that "New York
could be destroyed or captured and this would mean the
end of the war.
It now seems our hopes are blasted.
Some devilish invention by the Americans is being used
to destroy or capture our
ships.
Their success seems
to be so complete that
it
is almost unbelievable,
l^ot

--- PAGE 390 of 432 ---

880
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
one report from any man or ship has been heard since
we attacked Boston.
Now,
if the flower of our army
has been
lost
in
this
attack
against New York,
our
cause seems hopeless.
The facts are desperate but we
must face them.
Let no further move be made until
we know more about what the Yankees have."
Supreme Commander Gordon had made up his mind
that he would keep everything secret and not
let the
enemy know anything, but he dispatched a message by
radio to enemy headquarters reading:
Very much disappointed. Lost a good night^s sleep last night
waiting for your army to take New York
City.
When may
we expect the pleasure of a visit from your planes?
This mysterious message was as much a mystery to the
enemy as the letter that Robert found on the street in
Paris was to him.
The fleet sent out to attack Boston
had never returned and no word had ever been heard
of them.
France had been instructed by Supreme Com-
mander Gordon to cease attacking and await further
instructions.
Everything was quiet on the other side
and Germany and England were awaiting reports of the
success of the campaign of the United States before mak-
ing further attacks on France.
On the morning of June 13th the aviators who had
been put to
sleep by the sleeping gas around Boston,
awoke.
They were feeling good.
They knew that some-
thing had put them to sleep suddenly but did not know
that they had slept seven days and nights instead of one
night.
Instructions by Supreme Commander Gordon
had been given that no harm should be done any of the
aviators when they awoke.
Scouting planes were sent
out by the United States Army to capture the aviators

--- PAGE 391 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
381
when they awoke or started to drive their planes away,
but a few of the planes were permitted to escape and
return to the headquarters of the enemy.
When they
reported that while they were attacking Boston the night
before,
they suddenly went
to
sleep
and
the
planes
dropped to the earth and water, they were informed by
the Commanders that they had been away one week.
This was a great blow to the enemy and they knew
now that the Americans had some kind of a sleeping
gas which was harmless and would put men to
sleep
and keep them asleep for 7 days.
The enemy had
all
kinds of poisonous gases and bombs, but they had never
discovered a gas to put people asleep for a week, then
awake without any ill effects.
They now realized what
Supreme Commander Gordon's answer meant,—^that
it
was some new discoveries which the United States had
made
that
caused them
to
fight
on
and
not
accede
to
any
peace
terms.
After
days
of
waiting,
scout-
ing
and
trying
to
secure
information
as
to
what
had
happened,
the
attack on New York was
left
a
mystery.
They waited
until
the
16th day
of June,
thinking that
if their
aviators had been put to sleep
there some of them would return.
When none of them
returned by the 21st
of the month and no word was
received, they knew that the
fleet had been destroyed
or captured and that their army had been greatly weak-
ened,
but
still they held
the
Pacific
Coast and
con-
trolled IvTew Orleans,
St. Louis, and Chicago and their
Western lines were unbroken.
After holding a confer-
ence, they decided to adopt a waiting attitude for a time
and
see what
the
next move
of
the
United
States
would
be.

--- PAGE 392 of 432 ---

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXXIII
TIME
drifted
along until the
early part of July
without any further attack by the enemy, but Su-
preme Commander Gordon
believed
that they would
make another attack soon before giving up.
He was
simply watching and
waiting,
biding his
time.
The
United States Army scouting planes reported that the
enemy scouts were going out more frequently each night
and some of them had been seen 50,000 or 60,000 feet
in the air.
They thought that they were getting ready
to make another attack and were trying to get a line
on what the United States forces were planning to do.
The Supreme Commander went to Washington to test
out the "Demon of Death" which had been installed in
the
Capitol Building and found
it
in good working
order.
A
sleeping gas
distributing machine and
the
Tunnel machine had been set up there and he also tested
them out.
In view of the splendid work done by Colonel Edna
Kennelworth
at the time of the attack on ISTew York
City, Supreme Commander Gordon decided to send her
to Washington and put her in charge of the sleeping
gas distributing machine, the "Demon of Death," and
the Tunnel
machine.
He
instructed her
that
if an
attack came upon Washington, she was not to use the
"Demon of Death" unless the sleeping gas failed or they

--- PAGE 393 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
383
failed to get the enemy aviators into the Tunnel thru
the Air.
He believed that
if attack came upon Wash-
ington,
it would be the last and end the war.
Because
his country had ever stood for love and liberty,
if
its
Capitol was
attacked he wanted
it
to be saved by a
bloodless victory.
It would mean much to the United
States in future years if the seat of government could
be protected without taking the life of one of the enemy.
With the Tunnel machine in l^ew York, another one in
Cincinnati and a third machine in Washington, D. C,
Jie would be able from ISTew York City to place a Tunnel
thru the Air in every direction around Washington to
capture the invading army of planes.
Colonel Edna
Kennelworth said that she thought he was placing on
her shoulders a great responsibility, but that if he had
confidence in her, she would go and do her best.
He
told her that she could not fail and that there was noth-
ing to fear ; that it would be much easier now to protect
Washington than
it was l^ew York from
attack.
So
Colonel Edna Kennelworth went to Washington.
She
arrived there on July 2nd, and did not have long to
wait before seeing
action.
Battle of Washington"
The enemy was losing confidence and decided to risk
50,000 planes, the best that they had, on a concerted
attack upon Washington.
They
figured
that
if they
could take the Capitol,
it would be a telling blow and
help them on
to
further
victory.
This was
to be
a
supreme
test and they decided
to make the attack
in

--- PAGE 394 of 432 ---

384
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
broad daylight because they thought
it would be a sur-
prise and there would be more
people on the
street,
and the attack would have a greater demoralizing effect
on the people thruout the
country.
July
4th,
Inde-
pendence Day, was the time selected for the attack.
The
plan was to send one fleet up the Potomac, have another
fleet come down the Potomac from the North and North-
west and
the
third wing come
across by
Baltimore.
Colonel Edna
Kennelworth
was
on
duty when
the
Tel-Talk
buzzed
and
a
scouting
plane
reported
to
her that the enemy were approaching in large numbers
up the Potomac.
She had never operated the sleeping
gas machine in daylight before, but knew that
it would
work just as effectively.
Having seen the attack upon
New York and knowing how
swiftly one
attack
fol-
lowed the other, she realized that she must work fast. She
adjusted the gas machine toward the enemy approach-
ing down the Potomac and
set
it for a certain range,
about 76 miles.
She looked thru her telescope and saw
the enemy when they were about
50' miles away and
decided to let go the sleeping gas.
She swept
it quickly
right and left and in the glistening sunshine saw hun-
dreds
of planes going down.
In
fifteen minutes the
entire
fleet
w^as
safely asleep in the Tunnel thru the
Air.
By this time report came that another fleet was
making from Baltimore in a direct line for Washington.
She
set the machine
again, looked thru her powerful
glass and saw the enemy approachingg.
She started dis-
charging the gas, and in twelve minutes the entire fleet
had been plunged into the Tunnel.
She had
a few minutes
to wait
and
immediately

--- PAGE 395 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
385
picked up the radioplione and told Supreme Commander
Gordon
in New York that the
sleeping gas machine
had worked wonderfully and that the Tunnel thru the
Air held in captivity thousands of the enemy's airships
and planes.
Almost before she had finished making her
report, the Tel-Talk buzzed.
She ran to
it and was in-
formed by the scouting planes that the largest fleet of
planes ever seen was approaching from the West and
Northwest.
Knowing that
this was a combined
fleet
from the enemy's Western lines, from the same direction
as the
final one that attacked New York City.
This
was to be the supreme
test.
The
first formation
ap-
proached with about 1000 planes.
Swiftly and silently,
the gas machine did
its work and they went down into
the Tunnel.
Then came the second^ third, and fourth
formation and so
on.
More than 50,000
planes had
gone down and
not more than one hour's time had
elapsed.
When it was over with, Edna realized that she
had not been a human being during this
ordeal,
that
she had worked just like the machine, forgotten every-
thing but the responsibility for the protection of her
country.
When she knew that the Capitol of her be-
loved country was safe and that more than 50,000 of
the enemy's airships were safely suspended in the Tun-
nel thru the Air and that the aviators had entered upon
their seven days'
sleep,
she was supremely happy be-
cause not one life was required to save the Capitol.
It
was the greatest victory of all history thus far and she
knew what
it meant to Supreme Commander Gordon
and how this victory would be hailed with rejoicing all
over the United
States.
It would
relieve the tension

--- PAGE 396 of 432 ---

386
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
which had
existed for two years when every hamlet,
town and city had feared every night that they might
he attacked and destroyed hy bombs from the enemy's
planes.
The news had been flashed to all the Departments and
Army
Headquarters.
When
the
scouting
planes
re-
ported that more than 50,000 planes had been captured
in this attack and not one of them escaped, the Presi-
dent and Army
officers breathed a great sigh of relief
and knew that this meant certain victory for the United
States because the enemy had concentrated their attack
on New York and Washington with their best planes,
and had very few large bombing planes left, and if this
was not the end of the war,
it was the beginning of
the end.
The President and his Cabinet rushed to the Capitol
Building
to
congratulate Colonel Edna Kennelworth.
They found her carefully powdering her nose.
By this
time she was calm and collected and prepared for the
unexpected
reception,
but was overwhelmed with the
suddenness
of the
arrival of high
officials.
She had
met the President before when he had come to New York
after the great
battle.
He was the
first to grasp her
hand and, after kissing it^ told her of the great debt of
gratitude her country owed her.
The President
said,
^'Your great
service demonstrates
that woman
is the
equal of man and I hope to live to see the day when a
woman will be President of the United
States.
This
country owes to you and Supreme Commander Gordon
and your good husband, Colonel Kennelworth,
its
lib-
erty and freedom.
There
is nothing too good for you.

--- PAGE 397 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
387
You have performed the greatest act of any woman in
history.
I speak for the American people and extend
their
heartfelt gratitude.
We can never repay you."
Colonel Edna Kennelworth thanked the
President,
told him
that
she had only done her duty and
that
she felt any other good woman in the United
States
would be glad to do the same under the same conditions.
The President and members of his Cabinet were greatly
impressed with her modesty and expressed their pride
that one so young in years possessed such kill and dar-
ing.
She told them that this was imperative and that
there was no one else who know how to handle the sleep-
ing gas machine except Supreme Commander Gordon
and Colonel Kennelworth and that she had been placed
there for that purpose and had only done her
duty.
Supreme Commander Gordon
in
J^ew York
sent
a
simple message congratulating Colonel Edna Kennel-
worth:
^'You're a real woman—a thorobred.
I knew
you could do
it.''
The President and the War Council met and voted
that a message of congratulation and
appreciation be
sent to Supreme Commander Gordon telling him that
everything would be left in his hands and to proceed
as he had in the past.
The President and other Gov-
ernment
officials asked him
if he would not give his
consent to permit
all of the newspapers in the United
States to publish the details of the attack upon E'ew
York and how it had been successfully defended and to
give details of the great victory at Washington.
They
felt that the people had so long been in a state of fear
and anxiety, this would bring great relief and give them

--- PAGE 398 of 432 ---

388
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
a chance to get some peaceful sleep because
it would
remove from their minds the fear of their
cities and
towns being destroyed; give them confidence that the
United States had proved equal to the occasion; help
the
general
business
situation
and
bring
comfort
to
thousands
of
people who
were
suffering.
Supreme
Commander Gordon replied that there was no question
but that the war was won and that need for secrecy was
no longer necessary.
On the afternoon of July 4th the President of the
United States issued a proclamation to the people,
tell-
ing them of the wonderful victory in Washington and
assuring them that the country was safe, and set aside
the following three days
as holidays
to
celebrate and
commemorate the victory of Independence Bay.
In his
message he
said
that God had
blessed the
Stars and
Stripes and given to America a lone man who had made
inventions which had
saved
the
country, and
that
a
lone woman, Edna Kennelworth, with these inventions
had
protected Washington from destruction and
cap-
tured over 50,000 of the enemy's airships without caus-
ing the loss of a single soul.
The President's Proclamation was given to the news-
papers and every paper in the United
States carried
big headlines
:
GREAT ATTACK ON NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON
FAILS.
MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
OF THE ENEMY'S AIRSHIPS HAVE BEEN
CAP-
TURED. HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS HAVE BEEN
TAKEN
PRISONERS.
EDNA KENNELWORTH, A
LONE
WOMAN,
SAVED
WASHINGTON
WITH

--- PAGE 399 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
389
SLEEPING GAS BAGGED OVER FIFTY THOUSAND
AIRPLANES WHICH ARE NOW SAFELY HELD IN
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR MADE BY SUPREME
COMMANDER GORDON'S GREAT INVENTION.
IT
IS EXPECTED THAT THE ENEMY WILL MAKE A
PLEA FOR PEACE ANY DAY.
When
the
President
declared
a
holiday, Supreme
Commander Gordon decided that this was the time to
let the enemy know what our strength was
as
it was
no longer necessary to keep the
secret ahout our new
wonderful inventions.
He ordered the invisible noise-
less planes to load up with hundreds of thousands of
newspapers which told of the great victory, sail at great
altitudes over the enemy's lines in the United States and
bombard them
with
these
newspapers.
He
ordered
Colonel Morrison and Colonel Manson to take charge of
the planes which were to distribute the papers over the
enemy's lines.
Ordered them to
sail over the City of
Mexico and
distribute papers over the enemy's head-
quarters there.
The Supreme Commander felt that this
was the end, in fact he knew
it, because after reading
over
Ezekiel
again he saw
that
the prophecies were
about
all fulfilled and that in a short time the millen-
nium would dawn and the world would be at peace.
He
read Chapter 10: 9 and 21;
And the eherubims
lifted up
their wings and mounted up
from the earth in my sight; when they went out the wheels
were also beside them and everyone stood at the door of the
east gate of the Lord's house; and the glory of the God of
Israel was over them.
Everyone had four faces apiece and
everyone four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man

--- PAGE 400 of 432 ---

390
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
was under their wings.
And the glory of the Lord went up
from
the
midst
of
the
city and
stood upon
the
mountain,
which is on the east side of the city."
He knew
tliat
this was
tlie glory referred
to for the
United States and that Ezekiel's prophecy, Chapter 14,
21st verse, had been fulfilled.
It reads as follows:
For
thus
saith
the Lord God:
How much more when
I
send my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword and
the famine and the noisome beast, and the
pestilence, to cut
off from
it man and
beast?
He knew that the noisome beasts were the airplanes, and
that all of these things had happened.
He read again about the 7 days when they should
prepare and purge the Altar and purify
it and conse-
crate themselves.
He now knew that the time was com-
ing when the Lord should rule on earth as he had prom-
ised and war should be no more.
The prophecies of the
Bible had been fulfilled where it said that woman should
be the equal or exalted above man.
The Lord had said,
^'I will exalt the low and debase the high," and the Bible
said,
^'The
little
ones
shall become
as
a
thousand."
He was happy to know that everything was working out
just as he had predicted
it and happy because his
in-
ventions which he had worked on so unselfishly, had
saved his devoted country and made the nations of the
world
realize that
all power under heaven and earth
was given unto the United States, the land of liberty.
Knowing that the great power was now in his hands
alone, he could proceed to destroy every living thing in
every nation, but his heart was full of love and mercy

--- PAGE 401 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
391
and only thru mercy and without selfishness could the
United States set an example to the world.
He could
retake the Pacific Coast, wipe out the Western lines of
the enemy or put them all to sleep for 7 days and then
make peace on any terms that he might
dictate.
He
thought of all the rulers of the world, from the tyrant
'Nero down
to the Kaiser, how each one had
sought
world dominion based on
selfish greed, and each one
had failed because God would not sanction such ruler-
ship.
He thought of Marie and as he dreamed of her,
forgot whether he was a man with Caesar or a God with
Alexander.
E'ot once was he tempted to use the great
power within his hands^ for he knew that love was kind
and merciful.
All the writings of
St. Paul had put
stress on love and
charity.
He decided
that women
and children must be protected and that not one of their
lives should be taken in this
final
conflict.
'Now that
the end was near, he must demonstrate in a way never
to be forgotten the power that he held over the world
and decided to use the sleeping gas.

--- PAGE 402 of 432 ---

392
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXXIX
Robert Goedon's Seven Days
O^N"
July
20tli
lie had
completed
all
preparations
and had
all
his armies and
all the airships and
planes equipped with the sleeping gas machines.
In-
structions had been given that they should pass over the
lines from the Gulf of Mexico to the Great Lakes, from
Los Angeles to Seattle, and send forth the sleeping gas
and
put
to
sleep
entire enemy
armies
so
that
they
would be kept asleep for 7 days.
He decided to notify
all of the Commanding Generals of the Allied Enemy
just what he was going to do so that they w^ould realize
and know what power he had, and instructed them to
have all their commanding officers moved to places where
they would not be molested or put to sleep, so that they
might watch and know what was happening.
The Al-
lied Enemy were notified that they could make every
attempt to protect themselves but that
it would be use-
less, because they would be unable to see or hear the
approach of the silent, invisible planes.
He called Colonel Walter Kennelworth and Colonel
Edna Kennelworth to his headquarters.
Thanked them
for their services to the country; assured them of his
appreciation of their loyalty and devotion and promoter]
them
to
the rank
of
General.
Lie
ordered
General
Walter Kennelworth to take charge of headquarters
in

--- PAGE 403 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
393
l^ew York, operate the sleeping gas machine and to use
the *'Denion of Death"
in case of emergency.
How-
ever, he felt sure that there would he no more attacks.
General Edna Kennelworth was ordered to Washington
to resume charge in the Capitol Building and operate
the machines for defense
if necessary.
In hidding good-bye to his loyal comrades, he told
them that he was going
to take Marie the Angel
of
Mercy, and was going alone to London, Berlin, Moscow,
Madrid, Tokio and destroy buildings in these cities and
with the light ray put every city in darkness, put the
people to sleep and leave them for 7 days.
Then he
would destroy or conquer every important
city in the
world in 6 days, just the same as God created the world
in 6 days, and that on the Yth day he would return to
iN'ew York
City and
await
the
action
of
the Allied
iN'ations
in regard
to
peace.
He
ordered
all
of
the
countries
notified by radio that he would
leave
ISTew
York City on Marie the Angel of Mercy, which could
make 1000 miles an hour, and when he arrived in Lon-
don and other cities everyone should be out of the build-
ings which he would destroy with the ^^Demon of Death"
;
that this was to be a mission of mercy and that he would
not destroy one life if possible but that he must demon-
strate the power that he could destroy all life and build-
ings
if necessary.
The world was astounded and amazed but of course
did not believe that there was any such invention or
any such power in the hands of any one man, or any
one nation.
At 7 a.m. on July
21st, Supreme Com-
mander Gordon
sailed away
in the Marie the Angel

--- PAGE 404 of 432 ---

394
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
of Mercy and in a little over three hours
lie was over
London.
He notified them to clear
all the hig build-
ings on Lombard and Downing
Streets.
They were
unable to see his plane or hear it but they knew that he
was somewhere over London in the
air.
The people
were
frightened
and
cleared
out
of
the
buildings.
Women and children were taken away
to
safety and
slowly the death ray started to do
its work.
The big
buildings crumbled away, slowly melting down as tho
they were butter.
The people fell upon their knees in
the streets and prayed to God to save them from this
great invisible force.
Many people believed that it was
an unseen power from heaven that had come to destroy
the world and that this was the end of the world. When
he had completed the destruction of enough buildings
to show them his power, he circled over London time and
time again, sending forth the sleeping gas and the people
all succumbed and went to sleep.
With the power from
his machine he extinguished all the electric lights in the
city and left
it in darkness.
The news of this terrible
disaster was
sent from London
to the Allied Enemy
headquarters in the United States.
Supreme Commander Gordon then proceeded on the
following day
to
Berlin.
He
intended
to
teach
the
Germans
a
lesson that they never would
forget.
He
would show mercy that they had never shown because
not one woman or child would be harmed, but protected.
Not one human life would be taken, but he would make
the destruction of buildings in Berlin so complete that
they would never forget his
visit.
He would remind
them that the Kaiser and all of the great German armies
were powerless when Marie the Angel of Mercy sent

--- PAGE 405 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
395
forth its destructive rays and sleeping gas.
He sailed
over Berlin and notified everyone to clear out of the
buildings.
He destroyed all of the important buildings
on the business streets, turned loose his sleeping gas and
left Berlin in darkness, to sleep for 7 days.
When he had
completed
the bombardment
of
the
buildings in Berlin, he sent a message to the President
of France that he v^ould be in Paris within the next
hour
to thank him personally for the great
aid
that
France had given us in the war.
The President notified
him that France would declare a holiday and give him a
reception greater than that tendered Captain Lindbergh
when he landed there on May 21st, 1927.
He informed
the President that his time was limited, but in appreci-
ation
of
the
friendship
of France he would
anchor
Marie the Angel of Mercy over Paris and arrange lights
to play upon her to make her visible so the people could
see this wonderful ship.
He
left Berlin and was in Paris in a short time.
France had sent thousands of her planes
into the air
signaling the
"Marie.''
They could not
see her and
Supreme Commander Gordon communicated with them
by radio and anchored near the same spot where Lind-
bergh had landed over five years before.
He was taken
aboard one
of France's
airplanes and
carried
to
the
President, who greeted him cordially, kneeled and kissed
his cheeks and hands.
Thanked him for the inventions
which he had made which would end war for all time.
Supreme Commander Gordon had brought a letter from
the President of the United States thanking France for
her support and assuring them of our loyalty and sup-
port forever in the future.
He told the President of

--- PAGE 406 of 432 ---

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
his plan for a United Kingdom of tlie World.
How he
was going to
call
all the nations
to New York for a
peace conference when the war was over, which he was
assured would be when he returned to New York.
The
President assured him that France would be very happy
to be the first nation to join with the United States in
the brotherhood of man to make it a United Kingdom of
the World.
He told the President of France that he had brought
with him on board the
^'Marie" one of his Tunnel ma-
chines which he wanted to place in one of the tallest
buildings,
establish
a
Tunnel
thru
the
Air
between
New York and Paris so that their airships could pass in
safety thru the Tunnel to New York, or if any of the
officers
in Canada wanted
to come home,
they
could
proceed
to New York and travel thru the Tunnel
to
Paris.
He tested out
this machine after
it had been
set up,
sent one of the planes to New York thru the
Tunnel and the round trip was made in one hour and
thirty minutes.
He explained to the President that by
establishing a vacuum,
it was possible to drive the ma-
chines in safety at a terrific speed.
He instructed Louis
Corday, one of the famous aces of the French Aviation
Corps, how to handle the Tunnel machine.
Then Supreme Commander Gordon went to Lisbon
and Madrid,
Spain,
destroyed
their most
important
buildings
and
put
the
people
to
sleep
for
7
days.
Then proceeded to Rome where he destroyed all the fine
cathedrals, business and government buildings.
Before
arriving there he had notified the Pope to get
all the
people out of the buildings and instructed him where
to go for safety,
telling him he did not wish to give

--- PAGE 407 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
397
liim the sleeping gas but wanted him to be awake to
pray
during
the
7
days
while
all
the
inhabitants
were asleep.
Told him that his people must be taught
that God
is more powerful than any ruler or potentate
and that the time would come when there must be one
religion, one United Kingdom of the World and one God.
From
there he proceeded
to
the
beautiful
city
of
Vienna and having the people removed from the build-
ings, turned on the "Demon of Death" and melted the
buildings
down.
Discharging
sleeping
gas from
his
machine, he said good-bye to Vienna and proceeded to
Moscow.
The poor and uneducated people of Russia had been
warned of his coming.
The newspapers told them what
had been happening in other
cities, but the people re-
fused to believe that they would not be destroyed.
Many
of them rushed to the waters and drowned themselves.
Others went to the forests to hide.
Moscow was more
excited than ever before.
People had been praying day
and
night
before he
arrived.
Finally when he was
over Moscow, he sent a radio message that they should
clear
all the important buildings which he was going
to
destroy.
He
descended very low and
located
the
buildings and when he had been notified that the people
had been moved to safety, turned on the "Demon
of
Death."
As
the buildings leapt
into flames and the
people could see them, they were sure that this was the
end of the world and that God was destroying
it by
fire, because they were unable to see the source from
which the destruction was coming, the destroying rays
from the machine being invisible and Marie the Angel
of Mercy being invisible.
When he had
finished
the

--- PAGE 408 of 432 ---

398
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
destruction of tlie buildings^ lie turned loose the sleeping
gas, darkened the city and sailed for Constantinople.
He had notified the terrible Turks, who had sent such
destructive airships to help conquer the United States,
that he was going to open the Dardanelles from the air
;
and destroy the battleships in the Black Sea.
When he
arrived and
all
buildings were
cleared,
people were
greatly frightened and some of them were praying to
America's God
to
save them.
Supreme Commander
Gordon assured them that no lives would be taken.
He
then proceeded
to
destroy
all
their
largest buildings,
discharged the death rays into the water and blew up
their ships; left the city in darkness to sleep in peace.
His next stop was at Alexandria and Cairo, Egypt.
He visited the Pyramids, notified the people that they
were placed there according to a divine plan and that
he would not
destroy them.
He destroyed the main
buildings and blew up the warships, leaving the people
asleep as he had done in other cities.
He notified the people in Bombay, India, that they
had taken sides with England against us and that they
must be shown an example of the power of the Land
of Freedom.
He
destroyed
their temples and
large
buildings
and
put
the
people
asleep.
Then went
to
Pekin, China, where he destroyed buildings which had
stood for thousands of years; discharged the sleeping
gas and proceeded to Tokio.
The Japs had been the first to declare war upon the
United
States and make an attack and they must be
taught a lesson which they would remember so long as
the world stood.
He ordered all the men removed from
their battleships and proceeded to discharge the death

--- PAGE 409 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
399
rays into the water and destroy them.
When he began
to destroy the important buildings the people thought
that
it was another earthquake because they had not
forgotten how their buildings had crumbled down years
before.
He assured them that no lives would be taken,
that
they would
be
allowed
to
sleep
for
7
days
in
peace; leaving the city in darkness and the inhabitants
asleep, he proceeded
to Melbourne and Sydney, Aus-
tralia.
Australia had remained neutral and was friendly to
the United States.
He carried a letter of thanks from
the President
of the United
States
to
the
people
of
Australia.
Thanked them
personally and
told them
that they were now invited to join the United
States
in
forming
the
brotherhood
of man
in
the United
Kingdom.
The City of Mexico was next notified that they would
have the final and greatest demonstration of the power
of Marie the Angel of Mercy.
The Mexicans and Span-
iards knew that Supreme Commander Gordon was born
in the State of Texas. They remembered the Battle of the
Alamo and Goliad.
The poor class of Mexicans refused
to
believe
after Mexico had
joined with Japan and
Spain against the United States, that any Texan would
spare their lives.
They had prayed day and night since
they
learned
that
the
Supreme Commander
of
the
United States with Marie the Angel of Mercy was to
visit them.
He told them that this machine took
its
power from the air and that the rays were powerful
enough to melt down the mountains and that he would
destroy some of the mountains of Mexico and
all the
old pyramids.
Before he reached the City of Mexico,

--- PAGE 410 of 432 ---

400
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
he anchored over a mountain, turned on the death ray
and the mountain crumbled to dust.
The old pyramids
were
also
destroyed.
When he reached
the
City
of
Mexico, he informed them that he had destroyed the
mountains to fulfill the prophecies in the Bible which
said that every mountain should be laid low and every
valley should be
exalted.
A
large part
of
forces
of
the enemy and their officers were located in the City of
Mexico and they were notified to flee to the mountains
and
hills where they
could watch the
destruction
of
the buildings.
The Supreme Commander of the United
States said that they would not be put to sleep because
he wanted them to watch the silent, sleeping city while
it remained in darkness for 7 days.
When he had completed his destruction of the City
of Mexico, he sent a message by radio to ISTew York
and Washington that he was on his way home and would
pass over the enemy's
lines
in California and
in the
central part of the United
States, sending them mes-
sages all along giving his location and offering to let the
officers take a shot at Marie the Angel of Mercy if they
could see her.
He knew that "Marie'' could rise to a
height of 60 miles or more if necessary and intended to
fly
at
a height
to which no enemy plane could ever
ascend.
Supreme Commander Gordon sent a message to his
old home town, Texarkana, Texas, that he would anchor
there and give everybody a view of Marie the Angel of
Mercy.
When he arrived there he circled over his own
old home out near Red River
; then sailed the "Marie"
down
Stateline Avenue and anchored
her
in
the
air

--- PAGE 411 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
401
about 100 feet above the street.
He turned on the lights
and made
his great ship
visible,
so the people could
see what had accomplished the great victory.
It was
the greatest celebration that Texarkana ever had.
The
people went wild with joy.
His dear old mother was
the happiest woman in the world.
She greeted him af-
fectionately ; told him that
all her dreams about him
had come true.
He could only make a short visit as he had to hurry
on to ISTew York.
He notified Montreal, Canada, that
he would arrive there early on the morning of the 7th
day.
Montreal prepared for a great
celebration.
He
arrived there soon after sunrise, anchored the "Marie/'
and delivered a message to the people of Canada, thank-
ing them for their loyalty and aid in our behalf.
In-
vited them to be among the first to join in the peace con-
ference
in making the United
States
of
the
World.
After bidding them good-bye, he sailed for New York,
arriving just before noon on the 7th day after he had
sailed away on his great trip around the world.
Marie the Angel of Mercy circled over 'New York
and landed at the Mammouth Building.
General Wal-
ter Kennelworth was on duty and reported what had
happened
during Supreme Commander
Gordon's
ab-
sence, altho he had kept in touch with him by radio all
the time and informed him what was going on.
Su-
preme Commander Gordon's orders had been carried out
the day he left on his 7-day tour of the world and sleep-
ing gas sprayed over
all the enemy lines thruout the
United States.

--- PAGE 412 of 432 ---

40«
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
CHAPTER XXXV
THE Allied Enemy generals and
officers knowing
what could happen after the losses
at New York
and Washington
obeyed
the
instructions
of Supreme
Commander Gordon and moved to a place
of
safety.
After waiting three days and finding that their armies
were still asleep they gathered near their various head-
quarters in ISTew Orleans, St. Louis, Chicago, San Eran-
cisco and prayed for deliverance.
They realized that
the greatest power of the universe was now in the hands
of the United States.
Most of them credited this power
to an act of God, and not to man.
They had not yet
heard what had happened in all the cities of the world
where the Marie the Angel of Mercy had visited.
Late on the 7th day the Allied Armies of the enemy
began to awake.
Each day following for the next 6
days, the people in one city after another of the foreign
countries where he had visited awoke.
Supreme Com-
mander Gordon released an
electric light
control and
the cities were no longer in darkness.
All wireless and
radio stations refused to take any messages except what
concerned news in regard to the Marie the Angel of
Mercy and what had happened all over the world.
On the second day after Supreme Commander Gor-
don's arrival, the War Council of the United States and
the President came to ISTew York City to confer with

--- PAGE 413 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
403
the Supreme Commander.
Reports had come from all
parts of the world about his mission of mercy.
Not
one
life had been reported
lost.
To say
that he
re-
turned in triumph and gre.at victory was to put it mildly.
The President and the War Council decided that it was
now time to permit all newspapers to publish the news
all over the United States and let the people know just
what had
been
happening
during
the
past
7
days.
Thousands
of messages poured
in
to Supreme Com-
mander Gordon.
The world was at the Supreme Com-
mander^s feet.
He was hailed as the greatest man since
Jesus Christ.
On August 4th, 1932,
all of the cities in the world
where
Supreme
Commander
Gordon
had
destroyed
buildings, were heard from.
Reports showed that every-
thing was normal and that no lives were lost.
Messages
were pouring in from every part of the world to the
Allied Enemy Commanders
to make
peace with
the
United States on any terms and never permit the return
of Marie the Angel of Mercy.
The Commanders of
the Allied Enemy armies
dispatched messages to the
President
at Washington, asking for an armistice and
peace terms on any conditions.
The President replied
:
Peace terms are out of my hands.
When this country was
in dire peril and our cause seemed hopeless and
lost,—when
your demands were to take our country, our name, our honor,
—at that time we placed our fate in the hands of a lone man
Robert Gordon and made him Supreme Commander of
all of
the Armies of the United States.
His will
is law.
You will
have to
deal with him, no one
else has authority or will be
given authority.

--- PAGE 414 of 432 ---

404
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
The communication was sent to Supreme Commander
Gordon.
He called a conference to discuss peace terms.
The President, Cabinet
officers and
all the Army and
Government
officials
attended.
When
the
conference
convened, General Pearson arose and said:
^^When we
turned over the Supreme Command of the Armies of
the United States to you we agreed to abide by your
decision no matter what it might be.
Your actions and
the victories that you have won have justified our faith
and confidence in you.
You have proven yourself to
be the greatest man in the history of the world.
Your
mercy and justice has been demonstrated.
Our coun-
try and the world and its destiny are safe in the hands
of a man like you.
You have been guided by Almighty
God and I make a motion that we say nothing,
offer
no advice, but leave everything in your hands.
What-
ever terms of peace you make, we will gladly abide by
them.''
^
When he had finished talking, Colonel Manson arose
and said :
"I second that motion.
Let us make the vote
unanimous by all rising.''
Every man rose immediately.
The President grasped Supreme Commander Gordon's
hand
and thanked him
for
his
great
service
to
the
United States and the world.
Each Cabinet officer and
army
officer
followed,
and
shook
the Supreme Com-
mander's hand, wishing him continued
success.
The
President and Government
officials were anxious
for
Supreme Commander Gordon to explain how he had
accomplished the wonderful
feat of going around the
world in Y days and destroying so many buildings.
He
told them that his new machine made a Tunnel thru

--- PAGE 415 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
405
the Air and tliat it had overcome resistance from gravi-
tation and the machine was
invisible.
He explained
how he had been guided in building this machine and
all his other inventions by the Bible.
Supreme Commander Gordon decided to call a con-
ference of
all nations to take place in !N^ew York, on
August 30th, 1932.
They were notified and representa-
tives were asked to be sent.
Supreme Commander Gor-
don made a special request that the representatives from
all the countries bring with them their wives or daugh-
ters as he had a special message for them and wanted
them to take an important part in the Peace Confer-
ence.
ISTo one knew what the conditions of peace would
be, but even the enemy felt that they were dealing with
the most just man that the world had ever known, a man
Avho refused to take the lives of women and children.
When he had the power to put the entire Allied Armies
of the Enemy
to
sleep and destroy them, he refused
to do
it.
They were all willing and glad to leave their
fate in his hands.
All over the country Old Glory was
waving from every building.
Flags were printed with
the picture of Supreme Commander Gordon on them
and the picture of "Marie the Angel of Mercy."
The
flags bore the inscription "Tunnel thru the Air," "The
Lone Aviator," "Americans Savior."
Each day airplanes from all parts of the world began
to bring the officials who were to be at the conference of
all nations.
Madison Square Garden had been engaged
for the conference.
Several millions of people had ap-
plied for admission but only Government
officials and
prominent men and women thruout the country were

--- PAGE 416 of 432 ---

406
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
granted
tickets.
The
Government
officials
of
the
United
States led by the President and the Supreme
War Council, decided that at the opening of the Peace
Conference,
General
Walter
Kennelworth
should
he
designated to make the address of welcome to the dele-
gates of
all countries and
also to make the speech of
thanks for the United States to Supreme Commander
Gordon, for the services he had rendered, knowing that
he was his
best friend and he knew him better than
anyone else.

--- PAGE 417 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
407
CHAPTER XXXYI
Peace Confeeence of the World
THE conference convened about 10 a.m. on August
30th.
All of the officials were seated by 11 o'clock
and shortly after, Supreme Commander Gordon escorted
by the President of the United States, General Walter
Kennelworth and his wife General Edna Kennelworth,
arrived.
The applause lasted for more than one hour.
When it had died down, General Pearson stepped to the
center of the platform, and grasped the Supreme Com-
mander's hand and raised it before the vast throng and
said, "Commanders,
rulers,
kings and
officials
of
all
nations, this
is our lord and master, whose will
is law.
Whatever he says, we will abide by.
I now introduce to
you. General Walter Kennelworth, who will make the
opening address.
The applause again lasted for over
a half hour, then General Walter Kennelworth began
to speak
:
"Brothers and
Sisters
of
the
world:
This
is
the
greatest
council
that
the world has
ever known,
for
never before in history has every nation gathered at a
peace conference.
We hope and verily believe this is to
be the last war.
We expect to be one united people and
follow the law laid down in the Bible, ^Love thy neigh-
bor as thyself.'
Then there can be no more wars.
It

--- PAGE 418 of 432 ---

408
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
is my purpose at this time to introduce to you a man
who needs no introduction, the prince of peace, a man
of sorrow and acquainted with grief—^the greatest and
most just man since our saviour Jesus Christ was on
earth. We placed our liberty in his hands and he saved?
our country and has been merciful to the enemy.
Our
gratitude to him can never be repaid.
I now commend
you to his care and keeping.
Whatever terms he may
make
for
peace,
the United
States Government
will
ratify and confirm.
I now take pleasure in presenting
to you our Supreme Commander Robert Gordon who
will now address you."
Supreme Commander Gordon arose and tried to quiet
the great crowd.
Women were on their feet and men
were shouting,
^'Hail the most just and merciful man
in the world.''
There was a mad rush to try to get to
the platform to shake his hand.
When the noise had
quieted down and order been restored Supreme Com-
mander Gordon raised the Holy Bible and said:
"Brothers and
Sisters of the United World:
"The terms laid down in this book are the terms of
peace that I offer you.
I am going to offer you peace on
the same terms that Jesus would give you.
The United
States has always stood for liberty and as the land of
liberty
it must
set an example of peace and brotherly
love to the world
as
it has always done before.
This
country has never engaged in a war for personal gain.
In the great World War, we refused to accept any in-
demnities.
We made the fight for a principle, not for
money or territory.

--- PAGE 419 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
409
"N^ow the United States will make no demand upon
any nation.
There
is no longer to be different nations
of the world, but the United Kingdom of the World.
The United States is to dictate peace to the world on the
terms of brotherly love.
We will take no territory nor
demand any indemnity.
We will retain the gold supply
of the world but will follow the admonition of Jesus
Christ when he said Teed my Lambs.'
We will lend
a helping hand to any nation that needs
it.
You are
to return to your homes and loved ones and
tell them
that the spirit of God, which
is all-powerful and able
to destroy, is ever merciful and just and has spared your
lives and
liberty.
We refuse to take your money or
territory and in return only ask and demand that you
do unto others
as you w^ould have them do unto you
and as we have done unto you.
^'Remember that Old Glory has never trailed the dust
and she never will, because the God of the universe did
not create this nation for any or all nations to destroy.
He has placed the great power in the hands of those who
would use it only in defense of right and not for selfish
gain.
When I am ready, I can touch a button and
your great
airships which are now held
captive may
proceed safely home and when you go, may you follow
in the footsteps of Him who created the earth and who
has saved you, and may you give reverence and praise
to Him who
is able to destroy not only property, but
both soul and body.
When the final articles are drawn
and the territory of the United States
is divided and
allotted according to the plan laid down by Ezekiel and
according to science, we will so direct that each of you

--- PAGE 420 of 432 ---

410
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
can live in peace and harmony and according to the law.
"I demand
that
the terms
of peace
be
signed by
women as well as men.
They are more just and merciful
and will rule the country in the future.
If women must
continue to be the mothers of our men, they must have
the
right
to
decide whether
their sons
shall
be
sent
to war or not.
It will take time to arrange the plans
for
cities and countries
as outlined by Ezekiel and I
expect that the terms will be acceptable and signed by
the good women of every nation.
^^It
is understood and agreed that the United States
will retain
all of the inventions we now have for the
prevention of war and I warn you that if necessity ever
demands it, for the protection of peace of the world, that
a machine can be built which will destroy every living
soul on the earth.
It can be directed from ISTew York
City by a lone man without ever leaving here and do
complete destructive work.
This is only a warning and
not a threat.
You have seen the power demonstrated
by Marie the Angel of Mercy, and mercy shown.
You
must
respect
this
divine law and
divine power.
Re-
member that this victory is according to God's plan and
God's will.
I take no credit to myself and for myself
and my country ask nothing, except that you live with
us in brotherly love."
When Supreme Commander
Gordon
had
finished
speaking, the applause was the greatest ever known, last-
ing again for more than an hour.
When
it had died
down, General Walter Kennelworth stepped to the plat-
form and said,
''It
is next in order for me to make a

--- PAGE 421 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1910
411
speech of appreciation to Supreme Commander Gordon
not only for our country, but I have
in my hand a
paper which has been signed by the
rulers
of every
country in the world, asking that I make a speech of
appreciation
for them.
Before proceeding with
this
address, I want to ask every man and woman in this
audience who is willing to accept the terms of peace laid
down by Supreme Commander Gordon to rise to their
feet/'
In an
instant, every man and woman in the
building was on their feet, shouting, "Hail to the Chief,
God
bless him and long may he live."
When they were seated again, General Kennelworth
proceeded, and turning to Supreme Commander Gordon
he said
:
"Supreme Commander Robert Grordon, Comrade and
Friend:
I now have the greatest honor that has ever
been conferred upon any man,—that of presenting to
you the highest medal that the United States can confer.
This medal
is emblematic of your great work and the
duty and loyalty you have shown to your country.
It
is made of gold with a triple triangle in the three royal
colors, purple, blue and gold.
The words in the center
of the triangle are
'I am God-Love.'
Around the tri-
angle are the words, Faith, Hope and Love.
All of this
and even more you have lived.
"Words are empty when I attempt to convey to you
the appreciation and gratitude of this country and the
world.
I am instructed by the President of the Fnited
States to say to you that anything that the United States
can give
is yours without the asking.
All the foreign

--- PAGE 422 of 432 ---

412
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
countries now fall at your feet to worship you because
you have proven worthy and have used the great power
placed in your hands wisely.
It has been well said that
God never places a responsibility upon a roan who will
use it unwisely.
God has made no mistake in selecting
you, Robert Gordon, as the prince of peace.
The United
States
is proud of you, the world honors you and we
offer you our humble gratitude and all the praise that
this world can give you.
N^ame what you want as your
reward and
it shall be given to you."
Again the applause lasted for a long time.
When
it had died away Supreme Commander Gordon arose
and said, "General Walter Kennelworth, Comrade and
Friend, we have known each other since early youth and
I am deeply touched to have you here to make a speech
of gratitude for my humble
efforts
in behalf of my
beloved country.
You ask me what our country and the
world can give me in return for my achievement.
"I am deeply grateful to you, my brothers and sisters
of the world.
I ask no credit for myself but owe it all
to God who guided me thru love and inspired me to give
my best to my country and to bring back with honor
Old Glory's colors which have never trailed the dust,
unstained by blood of innocent women and children.
"Above all the rest, I have kept a woman's trust un-
tarnished and hope to some day see a new light of love
in a woman's eyes.
No reward
is greater than this and
I must still trust in God and wait.
I have been loyal
to her when
all others have doubted her.
Even when
my country dishonored me, my faith never faltered, and

--- PAGE 423 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
413
when she disappeared,
I hoped and prayed that she
would live and still hope she
is alive.
I knew she had
faith in me, love for me and the power of that love has
given me the power to destroy the world, hnt her love
has left charity in my heart and for that love I have
dealt with the enemy with love and mercy.
All
the
money, power and glory that yon can give me are empty
and cannot supply the aching void in my heart for her.
The greatest gift that could be bestowed would be to
return her to me with all the love and confidence that
she had in me on June 5th, 1927.
"In speaking of the inspiration that has been brought
about by my love for her, I want to say that I was always
faithful to my mother and that I have honored and re-
spected her.
It was she who taught me loyalty to my
country and
it w^as for her that I remained loyal and
faithful to the cause of my country.
*^In closing, I request that one of the terms of peace
shall be that 'New York City shall be the capital of the
United Kingdom of the World;
that the plan of the
future shall be according to Ezekiel.
The Bible
is re-
plete with references thruout of a rebirth.
Jesus said
^Ye must be bom again of water and of the spirit.' A
change of name is referred to many times.
Jesus said
^I will give him a new name.'
The United Kingdom of
the World shall be the new name.
Jesus said
'I will
be
their God and there
shall be no more War.'
In
Ezekiel 48: 35, his last prophecy was 'And the name of
that
city from
that
day
shall
be THE LORD
IS
THERE.'
iSTew York City, which is to be the capital of
the United Kingdom of the World and which has been

--- PAGE 424 of 432 ---

414
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
known as the most wicked city in the world,
is now to
be the capital of the land of love and liberty, because the
victory which united the world was won from there.
I
christen
it 'THE CITY OF THE LORD/
May you
so live that the world may know by the acts and justice
of this great city that THE LORD IS THERE.
I
thank you, one and all."
When Supreme Commander Gordon finished speak-
ing, almost every man and woman in the audience were
in tears.
They had never known that such Avonderful
things were in the Bible and that all of these very events
were foretold by the greatest prophet, Ezekiel.
The President of the United States stepped to the
platform and suggested that they give a rising vote of
thanks and three cheers for Supreme Commander Robert
Gordon. When the cheering was over, the President said
:
"The conference
is going to close for the evening and
meet tomorrow when Supreme Commander Gordon will
go over the plans for the future brotherhood of
love.
If you will have patience for a few moments, General
Walter Kennelworth will make the closing address, but
in the meantime I want to introduce to you America's
greatest woman,
one whom we
hope
that
the
good
women of America will select to be the first woman to
mle the United Kingdom of the World ; one who made
a supreme sacrifice and rendered her country the great-
est aid in time of war.
I present to you the wife of
General Walter Kennelworth, and the aide of Supreme
Commander Robert Gordon, the woman who saved the
capitol
at Washington—General Edna Kennelworth."
When the President had finished and the applause had

--- PAGE 425 of 432 ---

OR, LOOKING BACK FROM 1940
415
died down, General Edna Kennelworth
arose.
'*Mr.
President, Supreme Commander Gordon, Brothers and
Sisters of the United Kingdom of the World
: To me
belongs no honor and I seek no glory.
We owe
it
all
to
the
genius
of
our
Supreme
Commander,
Robert
Gordon.
I thank our worthy
President and
all
the
nations of the world who have shown their honor and
appreciation to General Walter Kennelworth, my hus-
band, and myself.
I am happy to know that the cause
of women has triumphed and that our Supreme Com-
mander has set an example for the world and has shown
what the love of a good woman can do.
I thank you.''
The w^omen were all on their feet and gave Edna the
greatest applause any woman ever received.
It was now
growing late in the evening and General Walter Ken-
nelworth stepped to the platform and said: "Brothers
and Sisters of the United World, I will not detain you
long with this personal address to our Supreme Com-
mander Robert Gordon."
Turning to the Supreme Commander he said : **I will
no longer address you as the Supreme Commander Rob-
ert Gordon, but as my friend and comrade.
This
is
the happiest moment of my life and I now realize that
justice, mercy and truth alvv^ays will be rewarded.
You
have been unselfish and since the day that you wrote
the famous
letter that won Marie and the Garden of
Love, you have kept your promise and been unselfish.
Your first thought has been of your country in time of
need.
You have been loyal to your mother, true and
faithful to Marie and now I want to read Marie's
let-
ter to you written the day she disappeared.
I know that

--- PAGE 426 of 432 ---

416
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
you know
it by heart because you have read
it a thou^
sand
times,
but
I want
this
conference of men and
women from all the nations of the world to know that
you are a man among men—that you are one in millions
and that you have
set an example for the world and
that example will make better men.
The letter reads:
" Dearest Robert:
" 'According to your faith be I unto you.
Love will always
have faith, understand and wait.
Time proves all things.
You
will
get everything you
want.
I
will come
to you when
I
mean the most, and your need for love is the greatest.
Marie.'
"Your faith has been supreme.
Your love has given
you faith and you have tried to understand.
More than
five long years have passed and no word has been
re-
ceived from Marie.
In your speech today, the thought
uppermost
in your mind was
for her happiness and
safety.
This shows that time does prove all things.
It
has proven your love for Marie and your faith and con-
fidence
in
a
woman^s
promise.
Marie was
a
wise
prophet.
She knew better than we knew when she said
:
'You
will
get eveything you want.'
Robert Gordon,
that
prophecy
has
been
fulfilled.
You
have
accom-
plished your ambition and received everything that the
world can give.
All of your dreams but one have been
realized.
You have
all the honors,
all
the gratitude
that a world can give, yet I know that your heart
is
aching and after your duty is well done and the peace
of the world is established, you will need Marie and her
love more now than ever.

--- PAGE 427 of 432 ---

Oil, LOOKING BACK EROM 1940
M7
"What Marie Stanton had in her mind the night she
wrote that letter and
left the train on the way to
St.
Louis, I do not know, but I do know that she has ren-
dered the greatest service of any woman to this country.
Whether she dreamed or realized what she was doing,
makes no difference.
Had she proceeded on to St. Louis
and married you, Robert Gordon, the great inspiration
which has made you the greatest inventor of the world
and the prince of peace, would have been lacking.
The
great desire for love and your longing for Marie has
stimulated your ambitions, kept hope in your breast and
endowed you with the power to subdue the enemies of
the world and unite the world
in the brotherhood of
peace.
This has
all been brought about by the act of
Marie Stanton.
She deserves credit and above all, you
deserve the greatest reward that can be given any man,
and that is the love of a good woman.
"The last line of her letter read, *I will come to you
when I mean the most and your need for love
is the
greatest'
Eobert Gordon,
that
last promise has
sus-
tained you thru
all
of these years.
It has been the
anchor that has kept your soul
steadfast.
You have
trusted and never doubted.
You have honored and re-
spected the land that gave you birth.
Your love and
faithfulness to Marie Stanton has guided you to success
and victory, because it was an unselfish love.
The great
God who gave His only begotten son to save the world
that He loved has not been unmindful of you and your
devotion to His wisdom.
You have followed His ex-
ample of love and mercy.
You have kept the
faith.
You have preserved the life of your nation and the all-

--- PAGE 428 of 432 ---

418
THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR
wise God in His wisdom and mercy, has preserved for
you the
life of Marie
Stanton.
Robert Gordon, my
friend and comrade, I now take pleasure in presenting
to you Marie Stanton/'
Robert Gt^rdon jumped from his seat as if in a daze.
Marie Stanton shouted, "Robert!
Robert!" and
fell
into
his
arms.
General Walter Kennelworth turned
to the audience and said:
"This
is the proof of God^s divine plan and the re-
ward for those who obey His law.
Love
is indeed the
fulfillment of the law.
I may not bo as great a prophet
as
Ezekiel
or
as
our
Supreme Commander
Robert
Gordon, but I predict that when we meet tomorrow we
will have heard that the first marriage in the new city,
The City of the Lord, capital of the United Kingdom
of the World has taken place between Robert Gordon
and Marie Stanton."
THE END

--- PAGE 429 of 432 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 430 of 432 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 431 of 432 ---

[OCR] University of
Connecticut

Libraries

--- PAGE 432 of 432 ---

[OCR] — a a -
en ee FE
See ae —_, " ——— —

= a ee

