================================================================================
DOCUMENT: Book_1978_Gann_Astro Cycles And Speculative methods.pdf
Total Pages: 143
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 143 ---

ASTRO-CYCLES 
AND 
SPECULATIVE MARKETS 
by 
L. J. Jensen 
"Oy 
LAMBERT-GANN PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC. 
Pomeroy, Washington 99347 
1978

--- PAGE 2 of 143 ---

To 
LLEWELLYN GEORGE 
Pioneer in American astro-research, who gave me a 
world-wide audience from 1931 to 1954 in his BULLE- 
TIN A quarterly; Arthur 1. Boreman, publisher of the 
MERCHANT ' S TRADE JOURNAL, who never edited 
one word from my business trend comments every month 
from 1933 to 1959; and, to Billy Jones who insisted this 
material should be printed and published as a heritage 
to others to expand their success.

--- PAGE 3 of 143 ---

CONTENTS 
PREFACE vii 
Section 1 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
1. The Problem of Economic Causation  3 
2. The Vibration Spectrum  5 
3. The Sun-Spot Cycle  7 
4. The Planetary Cycles 10 
5. The Uranus Cycle 12 
6. Some Conclusions 16 
Section II 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Foreword 
1. Mundane Rulerships 25 
2. Progressions and Transits 31 
3. Synthesis — Estimating Economic Trends 35 
4. The Houses in Mundane and Corporation Charts ... 39 
5. Eclipses 42 
6. Interpretation cf the Planets in Houses and Signs ... 43 
7. Casting Mundane Charts 45 
8. Notes. Base Charts. Keys 46 
9. The United States Birth Chart 61 
10. An "Over'-Simplified Method cf 
Astro-Cycle Interpretation 65 
11. The Aspects or Angles Between Planets 68 
12. Combining Sign-Houses and House-Signs and Aspects . . 70 
13. Planetary Aspects or Angular Relationships .... 80 
14. Formation cf a Market Forecast 82 
Section III 
MARKET CHARTS 
Foreword 
1. Geometrical Fundamentals 101 
2. First Steps in Charting 103 
3. Resistance. Objective and Trend 107

--- PAGE 4 of 143 ---

vi CONTENTS 
4. The Daily Chart 114 
5. Supplementary Helps 117 
Section IV 
1. First Steps Putting It Together 121 
2. Timing Elements 124 
3. Charting the Price Range Data  
129 
4. Estimating Prospects for a Locality ^ 132 
(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters) 
CHARTS AND MAPS (Partial List—see Text) 
Outline Map cf the World with Zodiacal Rulerships ... 29 
Outline Map cf the United States with Rulerships . 30 
Radix Great Mutation 47 
Rotational Conjunction 1921 48 
Declaration cf Independence (United States Chart) . 49 
New York Stock Exchange 50 
Liverpool Grain Exchange 51 
Bank cf England 52 
Chicago Board of Trade 53 
United States Steel Corporation 54

--- PAGE 5 of 143 ---

PREFACE 
The bulk cf the material in this edition was published in three 
brochures copyright 1935 and 1938. A condensation cf the third 
brochure on charting market statistics was issued as one cf many market 
studies while I was an analyst for a New York Stock Exchange firm. 
This edition comprises all cf the original three works with some addi- 
tional material in order to bridge the three into a continuity plus a 
number cf working examples cf methods which apply the principles 
involved. 
Section I offers some introduction to working applications cf what I 
term astro-cycles. The sources are the long established astronomical 
orbits cf the principal planets in that small niche cf the Universe which 
comprises the Solar System cf the Earth. For example, applied to cycle 
cadence is Jupiter and Saturn with their apparent conjunction ap- 
proximately every 20 years. Many cf these planetary cycle applications 
were original when published in 1934, but since then have been lifted 
out cf context and embraced by publications issued in Calcutta, Hong 
Kong, London, New York and Los Angeles. The plagiarism is cf little 
importance but the widespread practice has brought to attention the 
unquestioned validity of the data. 
The purpose cf the material in Section II was a notebook reference 
manual to present the salient procedures and elements cf astro-cycle 
applications to mundane affairs. Public psychology, business cycles, the 
price swings cf speculative commodity and stock markets, wars, famines, 
major weather trends, etc, have innumerable keys to answers by this 
concept. 
Very little cf the material has been co-ordinated before in print so that 
a student might quickly grasp the more significant factors. Separately 
most cf the factors have been generally known but not the why and how 
of mixing them. Part cf this condition has been intentional; why throw 
to the winds hard won data? There is another side though. Modern 
society has boxed itself in, painted itself into a dangerous corner. Out- 
wardly it is in great shape in its apparent affluence, mechanical achieve- 
ments and productive know-how. Actually it is a shell cf wasted 
resources, mountainous debt, galloping inflation, and eroding moral 
concepts. An Age is at an end which is out cf date, primitive and self- 
righteous with the chest-pounding adage that man is captain cf his fate. 
He may perish unless he gets down to the reality cf Natural Law. 
Section II contains no pretense of giving all the answers to modem 
problems. However, it does offer a means to a well-hidden phase of 
Truth which might lead to a foundation cf security for those diligent 
enough to examine and test the data. That such an approach infuriates 
those who proudly hold that nature has no design, no purpose and no 
form cf continuity ceased to concern me more than fifty years ago.

--- PAGE 6 of 143 ---

viii 
PREFACE 
A major factor in the workings cf Natural Law is cosmic radiation, 
that enormous vibrational power of the Sun which is reflected, deflected 
and mixed with the vibrational forces cf planets striking the Earth in a 
constantly varying array. Often it is ponderously stated that none of 
these vibrations are strong enough to affect a human being. In almost 
the same breath they talk about the possible uses cf solar energy. No 
matter if proven, or hallowed, or generally accepted as a fact cf life it 
is always easy to find some clown who vehemently disagrees. Perhaps 
the answer is not the defense cf the how and the why, but does it,work, 
does it give results? 
In my youth it was generally accepted that the claim electrical sig- 
nals could be transmitted without wires was a complete hoax, equal 
only to the idea that man could fly in anything but a balloon. On these 
two points alone college professors rated as scientific authorities, plus 
office holders who felt they protected the people, were around giving 
lectures warning against such idiotic claims. 
Here are methods and their working factors cf close to a half a cen- 
tury cf producing results. It is an esoteric subject; it is not for the 
average investor who really gets his kicks putting money into an array 
of stocks and then every day sweating the price movements. Over the 
years he usually ends up with one winner and ten losers. This material 
is for the serious winner who has the attitude cf a navigator and im- 
personally obeys his computations. He is not in markets for kicks but 
for profits. 
Section III uses some of the basic factors cf Section II and applies 
them to a system which is a coupling cf time and price. It is a simple 
charting of market prices. It is so simple any change or revision in the 
basic premises involved destroys its effectiveness. It will not work prop- 
erly with logarythmic scales, and the dependence on time brooks no 
shortcuts or distortion in the arithmetic scale. 
September 1977 
L. J. Jensen

--- PAGE 7 of 143 ---

Section I 
MAJOR TRENDS 
IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
Copyright 1935 by 
L. J. Jensen 
All Rights Reserved

--- PAGE 8 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
THE PROBLEM 
OF ECONOMIC CAUSATION 
The habit cf popular thinking lies along the vein that all economic 
problems are merely debatable theories. All economic affairs are viewed 
from much the same perspective as religious or political opinions; as 
something entirely dependent on the particular prejudice which happens 
to fit the environmental or geographical viewpoint. So it seems strange 
to suggest that there may be immutable laws that motivate the psy- 
chology of masses cf people, and that imponderable forces operate in 
economic affairs without respect for the hopes and ambitions cf men. At 
first glance it might appear-that such a postulate should be the source 
cf considerable popular derision, but perhaps only because the field of 
observation has been studiously ignored in modern times. At any rate, 
there appear to be several definite forces underlying the ebb and flow of 
the economic indices. 
It is the purpose, in this brochure and the companion volumes of the 
series, to examine considerable evidence bearing on economic causation. 
The observations contained in this brochure will deal entirely with the 
longer or major trends in American economic history. In the search for 
causes the prime interest will be, not to align the historical events with 
the coincident statistical business record and dovetail technical results 
with psychological effects; but to go deeper and attempt to trace those 
natural causes which appear to motivate the changes in mass psychology 
and result in given effects. After locating the source or cause we shall 
then examine the manner in which natural psychological cycles coincide 
with the cycles cf statistical business activity. 
In confining popular economic observations to a few cf the generalities 
like supply and demand, costs, available markets and distribution, labor, 
et cetera, the subject cf economics is principally concerned with statisti- 
cal results and psychological effects. Underlying causes cf such phenom- 
ena as the business cycle have only been studied in a superficial manner. 
This will probably continue to be the situation until the search for 
causes is taken out cf the field cf statistics and placed in the field cf 
psychology. At present, causes cf economic fluctuation are either con- 
sidered so remote and intangible that they cannot be defined, or else 
they are discarded as impractical. Economic effects, or rather statistical 
results, are paramount. We see economic effects all about us; we deal 
daily in effects, read cf them in the news, see them in moving pictures, 
and hear them from others. Yet in confining all cf our economic thinking 
to effects we are much like the remaining few who believe that the en- 
tire place cf medicine is to be strictly curative and disregard efforts cf 
anything preventive. Obviously, some approach toward analyzing eco- 
nomic causes is in order, if an economy is to be planned or any estimates 
are to be taken cf the future.

--- PAGE 9 of 143 ---

4 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
The debatable method of approach to economics, or the study of 
effects, might be excused by saying the average mind is so confined to 
narrow habit that a co-ordination of vast principles is impossible. It 
might be explained from the viewpoint cf the doctrine of free-will, which 
teaches that man is supreme, the source of both his success and his 
failure, and therefore the complete master of his fate. We might even 
offer the excuse that mankind is still in that stage cf a blundering evolu- 
tion where economic causes cannot be co-ordinated. But to present such 
explanations tie up with effects,again ignoring causes. 
Basic causes of economic effects are as intangible as life itself. They 
cannot be located with any cf the senses, such as hearing, seeing or tast- 
ing. They cannot be weighed by political votes, or religious followers. 
They cannot be found in laboratory test tubes, the statistical reviews of 
business activity, security prices, or in the opinions cf celebrities. When 
we search for causes in these sources, we are simply dealing with another 
phase cf economic effects. 
We cannot feel, see or taste the radio-frequency power that blankets 
the earth's atmosphere. Yet its presence can be proven with a radio re- 
ceiver. It is impossible to sense the force that shifts the ocean, effecting 
the tides. We have never been able to measure a mother's love for her 
child, and the attraction and repulsion that occurs between people. The 
effectsare usually obvious to the senses, but never the causes. 
Dealing almost exclusively with effects is the human habit. Probably 
ninety-five per cent of the people spend all of their time trying to change 
the effects about them. They attempt to change one situation only to 
meet another. It is often a case cf leaving one discomfort or distress for 
another. Perhaps a scant five per cent cf the people realize that to make 
any constructive change they must first locate a cause. It is in this search 
for causes that the minority find the seat cf power; by locating causes 
and then applying the power for desired effects. 
The basis of all causation in human affairs lies in the laws cf vibration 
in nature. When we step aside from these natural laws we leave the field 
of causation and turn back to the analysis cf effects, or the reflectors of 
causes. The modern developments in therapy; radio and electronics; 
sound, both music and noise; light and heat; indicate that all of us are 
entirely bound up in the laws of vibration. Feelings, and all action are 
vibrations. The key to our individual psychology, our mass psychology 
as a nation, and our entire economic life, is bound up with vibration. It 
is in this field of vibration that we are directing our observation cf eco- 
nomic causation, to try and locate the coincident effects which might be 
generated.

--- PAGE 10 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWO 
THE VIBRATION SPECTRUM 
Sound, light and heat are all forms cf vibration. Each field has its 
own spectrum or scale of vibration. Sound is an impulse cf air striking 
the organs of hearing with a perceptible effect. Light is that action 
wherein objects are made visible. Heat is another force, similar to sound 
and light, in that it has a rate cf vibration also. Each cf these natural 
actions have their spectra occupying niches in the huge vibrational 
spectrum of nature. 
Modern science indicates that all bodies, unless at the absolute zero 
cf temperature—assigned by physicists as minus 273 degrees Centigrade 
—emit vibrations. Most of these vibrations are not visible to the eye, 
sensitive to the touch or audible to the ear. The frequencies, or rates of 
vibration, vary from a few cycles per second to millions cf cycles per 
second and include everything from sound waves to gamma and cosmic 
rays. 
A crude illustration cf the huge vibration spectrum may be made by 
drawing a pencil line about a foot long. At the left end cf this line 
mark an (X). This point illustrates the rate cf vibration cf the musical 
note "B," four octaves below middle "C" on the piano scale, or thirty 
cycles per second. Move to the right on the pencil line about a half 
inch from (X) and mark (Y). This point represents a frequency of 
5,120 cycles per second, the high musical note "E," four octaves above 
middle "C." As the rate cf vibration rises above approximately 16,000 
cycles per second—the pitch cf some squeaks—it ceases to be audible 
to the human ear. We take this approximate half inch section on the 
nencil line to represent the sound spectrum niche cf the major vibra- 
tional scale. 
From the point (Y) move to the right on the pencil line—to establish 
the beginning cf the electro-magnetic spectrum—about three inches, 
marking the point as (Z). This point represents the beginning of the 
modern radio spectrum. Moving to the right on the pencil line another 
three inches will approximate the radio spectrum, this right hand point 
representing frequencies cf about sixty thousand kilocycles and wave- 
lengths cf five meters or less. 
Again move to the right on the pencil line, after leaving a gap cf 
about an inch to represent the lapping cf the short wave radio band and 
the frequencies cf the infra-red and heat rays, the center cf which 
represents the rate cf vibration of the color yellow, or approximately a 
rate cf vibration of 500,000,000,000,000 cycles per second. In this spec- 
trum is the frequency range where the human eye is able to directly 
detect the electro-magnetic vibrations we know as light and color. The 
eye continues this ability until the rate cf vibration increases above that 
of the color violet. 
Move to the right on the pencil line another quarter inch and mark

--- PAGE 11 of 143 ---

6 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
the point (A). This quarter inch section represents the ultra-violet ray 
spectrum on the edge cf the x-ray division. From this point (A) to the 
extreme right hand end cf the pencil line represents the several segments 
of; first, the x-raysj then the gamma rays; and finally, the cosmic rays. 
In the spectra cf gamma and cosmic rays the frequency is so tremendous 
that a huge line of figures would be necessary to represent the rate. 
The wave length at these frequencies is cf the order cf one ten thou- 
sandth cf one ten millionth of a millimeter or less. 
Observations indicate that the earth's atmosphere is permeated with 
high frequency radiation of tremendous penetrating power. Although 
this force is more intense at great heights than at the earth's surface, it 
is just as intense at night as during the day. At sea level this radiation 
breaks up about 1.4 atoms in every cubic centimeter cf air per second, so 
it cannot be denied that millions of atoms are broken up in every human 
body every second. This is the source of distinct biological and in turn, 
psychological, changes in people. Far more penetrating than any other 
type cf vibration it has-been found that the most penetrating portion of 
these rays will pass through sixteen feet cf lead. 
It is only very recently that an analysis cf the biological and psycho- 
logical effects of these rays has been attempted by exact science. How- 
ever, the effect of this energy has been observed by man for centuries. 
Simple physics illustrates with a prism how a small segment cf sun- 
light can be separated into the seven primary colors. On the angle of 
refraction of the sun-rays through the prism depends the particular 
color in the spectrum. Experiments indicate that a similar type of 
refraction process occurs through the planets in their relation to the Sun 
and Earth. Radiation on the surface of the Earth is composed of; first, 
the rays of the Sun which are refracted by the Earth's magnetism and 
atmosphere; second, the refracted rays cf the Sun, each changed in a 
particular manner through the angle in which they are reflected from 
the planets; and, the radiation of each planet. This condition indicates 
that the frequency of solar radiation is much broader than just the light 
and heat spectra, covering the entire electro-magnetic spectrum from 
radio waves to cosmic rays. 
We shall now proceed to examine the effects cf this radiation in the 
light cf economics and mass psychology.

--- PAGE 12 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
THE SUN SPOT CYCLE 
The Sun, as the center of the Earth's little niche in the Universe, is 
credited with being the source cf all cf our energy. The Sun is a star, 
although it is not the largest, or the brightest, or the hottest star, in the 
Universe. But it is the ruler cf the solar system cf which the Earth is 
one unit; and controls the motion of the Earth and all the other planets. 
On the surface cf the Sun, or its photosphere, often are seen dark 
spots, some cf which are many times larger than the Earth. The oc- 
currence cf these spots was noted by the Chinese long before Galileo 
used his telescope in 1610. Hale found that at its center a Sun-spot has 
the properties cf a huge bar magnet. Researches by Schwabe and then 
Wolf, which were followed by very systematic observations, show there 
.is an increase and then a decrease in Sun-spot totality with a "regular 
irregularity" cf about 11.2 years. The interval varies in a range cf about 
four years. The movenrrent from maximum to minimum averages about 
6.5 years, and the rise from minimum to maximum about 4 6 years. 
^ frrTbe extensive researches involving the business cycle, as indicated 
in the charted tabulation cf the statistics cf business activity over a 
long term cf years, there is a distinct relation between the periods of 
prosperity and depression and the Sun-spot cycle. The work financed 
by the Harvard committee on research in social sciences has resulted in 
tracing this correlation from the 17th century South Sea Bubble down 
to the present year. The last Sun-spot cycle began with a minimum of 
spots in 1923, a maximum in 1928-1929, and another minimum in 
1933-1934. Another maximum point is expected late in 1938. The 
general averages cf Sun-spots for the past 100 years are tabulated on 
the next page. Current technical and scientific data is obtainable 
through Science Service, Washington, D. C. 
A phenomena cf Sun-spots is that the measure cf solar radiation in 
the heat spectrum cf vibration shows an increase in the Sun's heat with 
an increase in the Sun-spot totality. Solar radiation at heat and light 
frequencies averages close to two horsepower per square meter on the 
Earth's surface. The solar energy constant is usually taken as 1.94 
calories. But when Sun-spots are at a minimum this value changes to 
about 1.92, and when Sun-spots are near a maximum the value averages 
1.96. My conclusion is that this variation in the energy constant affects 
the mass cf humanity biologically and therefore psychologically, in the 
manner reflected by the rise and fall cf the statistics cf business activity, 
or economic energy. 
Considerable work has been done in the field cf correlating rainfall 
and the Sun-spot cycle as a clue to factors in long range weather fore- 
casting. The effects of the cycle have been strikingly shown to coincide 
with tree ring phenomena. It has also been proven there is a coincidence 
between the amount cf ultra-violet radiation and Sun-spots. Even the

--- PAGE 13 of 143 ---

8 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
TABLE OF SUN-SPOT AVERAGES 
Year 
Average 
Year 
Average 
Year 
Average 
1837 
138.3 
1871 
111.2 
1905 
63.5 
1838 
103.2 
1872 
101.7 
1906 
53.3 
1839 
85.8 
1873 
66.3 
1907 
62.0 
1840 
63.2 
1874 
44.7 
1908 
48.5 
1841 
36.8 
1875 
17.1 
1909 
43.9 
1842 
24.2 
1876 
11.3 
1910 
18.6"* 
1843 
10.7 
1877 
12.3 
1911 
5.7 
1844 
15.0 
1878 
3.4 
1912 
3.6 
1845 
40.1 
1879 
6.0 
1913 
1.4 
1846 
61.5 
1880 
32.3 
1914 
9.6 
1847 
98.5 
1881 
54.3 
1915 
47.4 
1848 
124.3 
1882 
59.7 
1916 
55.4 
1849 
95.9 , 
1883 
63.7 
1917 
103.9 
1850 
66.5 
1884 
63.5 
1918 
80.6 
1851 
64.5 
1885 
52.2 
1919 
63.6 
1852 
54.2 
1886 
25.4 
1920 
38.7 
1853 
39.0 
1887 
13.1 
1921 
24.7 
1854 
20.6 
1888 
6.8 
1922 
14.7 
1855 
6.7 
1889 
6.3 
1923 
5.8 
1856 
4.3 
1890 
7.1 
1924 
16.7 
1857 
22.8 
1891 
35.6 
1925 
44.3 
1858 
54,8 
1892 
73.0 
1926 
63.9 
1859 
93.8 
1893 
84.9 
1927 
68.5 
1859 
93.8 
1893 
84.9 
1927 
68.5 
1860 
95.7 
1894 
78.0 
1928 
77.8 
1861 
77.2 
1895 
64.0 
1929 
65.0 
1862 
59.1 
1896 
41.8 
1930 
35.7 
1863 
44.0 
1897 
26.2 
1931 
21.2 
1864 
47.0 
1898 
26.7 
1932 
11.1 
1865 
30.5 
1899 
12.1 
1933 
5.7 
1866 
16.3 
1900 
9.5 
1934 
1867 
7.3 
1901 
2.7 
1868 
37.3 
1902 
5.0 
1869 
73.9 
1903 
24.4 
i R7n 
139 1 
lonr 
A1) A 
marked variation in the pelts cf fur-bearing animals, checked over a 
long term of years, coincides with the Sun-spot cycle; another biological 
effect cf Sun-spot phenomena. 
Although the business cycle and the Sun-spot cycle coincide very 
closely, there have been several lags or discrepancies which science has 
been unable to satisfy itself on. The factor cf planetary refraction seems 
to have been ignored. Yet if we take cognizance cf the planetary revolu- 
tions in our solar system and check the varying positions in relation to 
each other, to the Sun and the Earth, the discrepancies are plain, and 
explainable by planetary angles and positions.

--- PAGE 14 of 143 ---

THE SUN SPOT CYCLE 
9 
Apparently then, we cannot use the Sun-spot phenomena alone in 
forecasting economic probabilities, but include observations cf planetary 
cycles and planetary interaction also. We shall approach this field in the 
next chapter.

--- PAGE 15 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
THE PLANETARY CYCLES 
Since the ages cf antiquity philosophers have viewed the skies. They 
charted the heavens in relation to,a belt or huge circle whose middle 
line is the ecliptic or Sun's path. The signs cf the zodiac are the animal 
and human forms which seem to be reproduced in the constellations 
within this belt. During the 4th century the intellectual zodiac was 
computed. It employs the names cf the constellations reckoned from the 
vernal equinox, each thirty degrees being one sign, irrespective oT the 
relative positions cf the corresponding constellations. In these observa- 
tions we use this intellectual zodiac to observe planetary positions and 
interaction. 
The constellation^, through the phenomena cf the precession cf the 
equinoxes, gradually slip back through the signs at the rate oT50" per 
year, or one whol^'~5fgirTir'27T60~Tears. 'The enSreTeyofution cf tfie 
constellations"occupies~a"i^ 25,920 years. present time the__ 
nodETpomFofthe'cirde"cf cotlgteirations is leaving the sigrTPisceTand, 
m the next several years, will enfeFThe sign Aquarius! Pisces is indica- 
tive of water, religious aspiration, confinement and restraint. The past 
2000 years cf history marked exploration by water, the development of 
chemistry, medicine, steam and water power; a new religion gripped the 
hearts cf men that aspired to make man in the image cf his god. In- 
tolerance and discipline--a form cf restraint — in political, economic and 
religious thinking was the basis cf developing the greatest period cf 
human initiative in known history. 
Aquarius is an air sign that typifies aspirations cf unity and the 
establishment cf the bond cf mutual interests. Its effects are a lack of 
continuity and stability, but tenacity and decided dependence. The 
symbol is brotherhood, being mentally dominant in the idea cf social 
interdependence with a dislike cf all caste systems in human relation- 
ships. Where Pisces is water Aquarius is air and ether; and it follows 
that the approaching cycle cf the Aquarian Age will stress affairs cf the 
air and ether, such as aeronautics; and those things pertaining to light, 
heat and electronics. At the same time the entire political and social 
aspects of society will change. 
The movements cf the planets around the Sun are traced through 
the zodiac, and computations cf their daily positions are published in 
table form called ephemerides. The time cf a complete revolution cf a 
planet around the Sun is termed a planetary year. The earth year is the 
standard cf measurement. The approximate periods cf planetary revolu- 
tions are; 
VAliA CtJL w. 
Earth — 365days7hrs. Jupiter—11 yrs 314 
Mercury — 88 days Saturn — 29 yrs 167 d 
5' —224 days Uranus—84 years 
-1 year 322 days Neptune — 164 yrs 16' 
Moon—28 days around the Earth

--- PAGE 16 of 143 ---

THE PLANETARY CYCLES 
11 
Ancient astrology was principally confined to the purposes of divina- 
tion, or, foretelling specific events by means cf a map of the heavens 
drawn at the moment of broaching the question. In modern times the 
scientific researcher entirely ignores the practice cf interpreting events 
from these horary figures. Ancient fatalism has become tinctured with 
free-will, and the modern study cf planetary interaction and cosmic 
vibration is a science that starts where ancient astrology left off. 
This new science is thoroughly cognizant with all cf the advances and 
discoveries cf modern science. Its development is based on these dis- 
coveries. But it fully recognizes the line cf demarcation between the 
fatalism cf the Ancients and the doctrine cf free-will and ego-centric 
perspective, — persisted in by current schools cf psychology. It is the 
undiscovered key to psychology, for it shows that man, individually and 
en masse, is impelled along paths that are definitely related to planetary 
and other phases of solar radiation. 
In checking ernnomip statistics cf the business cycle w'tb rhp pprinffo 
when the major_sloffi_rnoving planets, Saturn, Uranus and Jupiter, are 
ninettrt^f^hriphimdred eigTittr Ycgrees apartln the zodiac, they "are 
found to coincide with economic depression. But when the same planets 
are sixty or one hundred and twenty degrees apart (in the zodiac) they 
coincide with periods cf prosperity. This phenomena is discussed in 
detail in a companion brochure. 
The earth signs cf the zodiac, Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn, have 
always been closely coupled to American political and financial life. 
The passage of planets through these signs in their revolutions tie in 
with major events in a startling manner. For the first time in United 
States history Jupiter and Saturn began to meet in conjunction in earth 
signs just after 1840. Regularly every twenty years since a conjunction 
of these two planets has occurred in these earth signs, timing periods cf 
political upheaval and new agitation, and interest; — in currency, na- 
tional credit and financial matters. 
Every President, since the inception cf these conjunctions in earth 
signs, who was elected in these periods, died in office. In 1840 Harrison 
was elected and died in office. In 1860 Lincoln was elected. He died in 
office. Garfield was elected in 1880 and he died in office. In 1900 it 
was McKinley and in 1920 it was Harding. In 1940 it was Roosevelt; 
despite increasing disabilities he persisted to re-election in 1944. And 
in IQfin the gpqnpnce continued with Kennedy.5" 
Wild-cat bank notes, following the panic cf 1847-1838, became the 
"red-dog" variety until agitation for intlation placed all tlie banks cf 
Michigan in receivership in 1842. In 1861 federal credit was such that I 
non-interest bearing notes were or3ered, starting the greenback diffi- 
culties. After the veto cf the inflationary Bland-Allison Act in ISTSp I 
silver standard was agitated in the depression cf 1882 to 1885. Credit 
problems were so great in 1902-03 panic occurred. After 1920 cheap 
money and credit was agitated and the Agricultural Act cf 1923 re- 
sulted. 
* This sentence in this 1978 edition brings the cycle to date.

--- PAGE 17 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FIVE 
THE URANUS CYCLE 
Qf the planets comprising the same solar system as the Earth the 
recently discovered planet Pluto has the largest orbit, taking the longest 
time to go around the Sun. Neptune is next in order, taking approxi- 
mately 164 years, 167 days to go around the Sun. The movements of 
these planets have coincided with epochal changes in the psychology 
cf the people, but just now we are more concerned with the manner in 
which Uranus has been prominent in American economic history. 
Uranus was recognized as being in the heavens in ancient times, but 
it was not located, and astronomically discovered until 1781 by. William 
Herschel. It was first seen in the sign Gemini, and is astologically at- 
tributed to the rulership cf Aquarius. A^TC . u 
The revolution of Uranus is 84 years, qr^about,seyeiUVears m eao^ 
sign cf the zodiac. When at sensitive angles with other planets, or m 
sensitive points ot tEeTzodiac, its effects are sudden and radical changes, 
secrecy, plotting, estrangements, chaos, and action engendered by an 
underlying progressiveness. Its general effects generate humanitarian 
and altruistic endeavors in the positive side, but its negative side 
generates fanaticism with rather riotous and eccentric activity, disorder 
and inexplicibly sudden changes cf fortune. Its revolutions cf 84 years 
peculiarly align with American history. 
The vast researches in history during the past two decades have 
clarified many heretofore difficult points. Until recently history was 
viewed principally as a numerical co-ordination cf events with the 
calendar. Now we have come to realize that cycles cf history operate 
in much the same manner as cycles cf business, each cycle being an 
epoch. Many notable studies in the co-ordination and sweep cf the 
cycles cf history have been presented in recent years, the "March cf 
Democracy" by James Trueslow Adams, and the "Outline cf History" 
by H. G. Wells being popular examples. The monumental work cf 
Spengler, in "The Decline cf the West," even goes a step farther by co- 
ordinating centuries cf human history into a huge connected skein, with 
each era separated but inter-related with the next. 
Few historians, however, have taken any note cf the cycles cf ap- 
proximately eighty-four years that have been so closely identified with 
American life. Whether the newness of Western civilization on the 
North American continent has prevented the taking cf such a major 
economic perspective cf its history, or whether broad perspectives are 
considered cf little value is a debatable affair. At any rate, and in spite 
of many important intervening events, there have been distinct eco- 
nomic and social cycles cf 84 years each. The manner in which these 
cycles align with the cycles cf Uranus has reached a point where it has 
ceased to be coincidence. 
If our historians are correct, Columbus landed on what is now known

--- PAGE 18 of 143 ---

THE URANUS CYCLE 
13 
as the West Indies group of islands in 1492. From 1492 to 1520 Spain 
gave little attention to the new land except to establish settlements for 
exploration and trading purposes in the West Indies. The main land was 
practically ignored. Their search was primarily for gold and treasure, 
and a new route between Europe and the Far East. Balboa crossed 
Panama and reached the Pacific in 1513, while Ponce de Leon landed 
in Florida in the same year. In 1520 Magellan found a strait near the 
southern end cf South America, which settled the question cf the po- 
sition of the America's in relation to Europe and Asia. But it was in 
the 1520's before any settlement or colonization cf the mainland was 
attempted by white men. 
In 1523-.and 1524 Florida, the territory which now reaches from 
Florida to Labrador, attracted the first serious attention cf Spain. Late 
in 1523 the first formal grant cf conquest and settlement was issued. 
The first settlement was launched under d'Ayllon, not far from the same 
spot on which Jamestown was later founded. 
Astronomical calculations indicate that the planet Uranus crngwd 
the 8th and 9th degreeiTof tEe zodiacal sign GermnTin the year 1523  
coinciding with the first settlement cf the lana which now comprises 
part of the United States. 
In the 84 years between 1523 and 1607, rn 
to the 8th and 9th degrees cf Gemini, many changes occurred on tbp 
North American Continent, but in the light cf history this period was a 
distinct epoch in itselt. 
Just after the beginning cf the 17th century a troublesome depression 
gripped Europe. Thousands were without employment or even a place 
to live. The proposal to colonize America met with great favor. Eliza- 
beth was dead. The Stuarts were in the ascendancy and Europe was 
launching a period of fateful constitutional changes which was sinister 
and chaotic. 
So it was in the latter part cf April, 1607, the first English settlement 
was made in America at Jamestown, Virginia. Notwithstanding the 
shortcomings of the settlers, their tremendous difficulties and their im- 
practicality in adjusting themselves to a new land, there is no mistaking 
that this settlement and year was the beginning cf the 2nd epoch in 
American economic history. It also began a new Uranus cvcle. 
In 1691 Uranus had again traygled through its 84 year orbit, return- 
ing^agam"to the 8th~and QtETdegrees of Gemini. Since 1607 the New 
England colonies had developed, Maryland was a ofovince and organiza- 
tion had entered Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Carolina. But when 
the 1690's began civil war and revolution embroiled England, laying-^ 
the seeds of political and religious dissension in the American colonies. 
Conditions became so intense in the colonies by 1691 that a general 
upheaval ensued, which Woodrow Wilson, in his five volume "History cf 
the American people," calls "The Revolution." This deluge ended the 
2nd epoch of American economic life which began with the founding cf 
Jamestown in 1607. The 1690's saw the fall and burning of Jamestown, 
the fall cf Plymouth, Massachusetts and Maryland, and the institution

--- PAGE 19 of 143 ---

14 
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS 
of new political currents and economic ideas, coinciding with the begin- 
ning cf another new cycle cf Uranus. 
In 177S. 84 years after 1691. IJranns again returned to the Rth and 
9th degrees of Gemini. In the interim the seeds cf American inde- 
pendence had been sown an3~on May 20th, 1775, a Declaration cf 
Independence was issued from the Mecklenburg, Virginia Convention. 
But the new era cf independence did not formally begin until Uranus 
reached 8 degrees 51 minutes cf Gemini at 20 minutes past noon on 
July 4th, 1776 in Philadelphia; when the final Declaration cf Inde- 
pendence was signed. Indubitably coinciding with the new cycle of 
Uranus, the fourth epoch in American economic life began. 
Late in 1859, 84 years after the Declaration of Independence, Uranus 
had again returned to the 8th and 9th degrees cf Gemini. In_the interim 
a new union ot states developed and multiplied, bulTvioIent dissension 
had been gaining ground on several major questions ever since the 
1820's. By 1850 close to an armed division cf affairs developed, which 
became an actuality in Civil War in 1861. On December 20th, 1860, 
South Carolina secededrrom the union. The planet Uranus was in 9 
degrees 17 minutes cf Gemini on that day. 
On February 4th, 1861 the provisional constitution cf the Confederacy 
was framed at Montgomery, Alabama. Uranus was retrograding in 8 
degrees 6 minutes cf Gemini at the moment. The first armed conflict cf 
the war took place in early April 1861 at Fort Sumter. Uranus was then 
in 9 degrees 4 minutes cf Gemini. 
A reference has already been made to the conjunctions cf Jupiter 
and Saturn beginning to appear in earth signs, after 1840, at approxi- 
mately 20 year intervals. The conjunction following the presidential 
election cf 1860 occurred on October 21st, 1861 in 18 degrees 22 
minutes of Virgo, although between September and November 1861 it 
was very near a constant conjunction. 
At the time cf this conjunction period cf 1861 the state cf federal 
credit became serious. Tax receipts from the Southern states were no 
longer sources cf income, while the expense cf the war was more than 
the Treasury could stand. In July 1861 only 25 cents cf each dollar 
spent in government came from taxes. The balance was borrowed. 
Following an appeal to the banks for $150 millions in August the 
Treasury could not pay creditors in coin and the country went on a 
paper basis. Between that time and 1863 close to a half billion in 
greenbacks was issued while gold went to huge premiums. The problem 
became intensely difficult through the sudden death of Lincoln, when 
Reconstruction plans and the efforts toward credit stabilization were 
unexpectedly transferred to Vice President Johnson, a Democrat in 
what had been a Republican Administration. So without any doubt 
the crossing cf the 8th and 9th degrees cf Gemini by Uranus again co- 
incided with the end cf one epoch and the beginning of a new fifth 
epoch in American economic history; intensified by the appearance of 
the conjunction cf Jupiter and Saturn in Virgo. 
From 1859-1860 to 1943-1944, when Uranus will again traverse.

--- PAGE 20 of 143 ---

THE URANUS CYCLE 
IS 
theJSth and 9th decrees of Gemini is 84 years. Intensifying circum- 
gtances at that tfme will jpc Saturn ill Cfeffllfll bfelVVfefeli May 9th, 1942 
and June 20th, 1944, following a umjuiiUkiii if Saturn and Uranus in 
29 degrees of Taurus on May 3rd, 1942, and a conjunction of Jupiter 
and Saturn in Taurus (an earth sign) in the early part cf February 
1941. It is unqualifiedly the most momentous period so far encountered 
in American history.

--- PAGE 21 of 143 ---

CHAPTER SIX 
SOME CONCLUSIONS 
Any recapitulation cf the observations in the foregoing material must 
first take cognizance cf the fact that these cycles are not compelling. If 
appointed leadership could and would take stock cf these phenomena 
any long range observations could be couched in a pre-adjustment to the 
reverberations. On the other hand, the very complexities cf the* head- 
long welter cf public opinion and political expediency seems to bear 
down as an irremovable force or process cf evolution. Preventive pre- 
scriptions have no place here, however. 
Those practiced in the habit cf waiting to see debatable economic 
effects may conclude that all this data is a unique chain cf coincidences 
which have no bearing on the future. But let us maintain a distinction 
between that which consists cf economic effect and that which may be 
cause. 
The first conclusion is that the period between the World War and 
the late 1950's marks a cyclical transition from th^ Piscean Age o£4he- 
last 2000 years into the Aquarian Age cf the next 2000 years. The dead 
center cf the transition computes as the decade 61 iy4L) to rtso. 
Second, the fifth 84 year cycle in American economic life will end 
in 1943 and a new 84 year cycle begin in 1944, a transition heretofore 
accompanied by tremendous and chaotic circumstances. 
Third, a Sun-spot maximum is expected in 1938, and a minimum in 
1943 and 1944, which is one contribution to the anticipation that busi- 
ness indices will attain a high in 1938 and a low in 1943 and 1944. 
Fourth, a conjunction cf Jupiter and Saturn again occurs in an earth 
sign, this time in 1941, following the election cf 1940, suggesting the 
possibility cf a repetition cf an unexpected collapse cf executive power 
by 1945. 
Fifth, a phenomena cf the Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions in earth signs 
is the manner in which they have timed a new interest in problems cf 
banking, credit and the expansion cf credit. When accompanied by 
Uranian influences, as occurred following 1860, necessitous inflationary 
expedients developed. Between 1940 and 1945 the combined influences 
are far more potent than at any time in American history, including the 
Civil War period. The conclusion is that the aftermath cf the credit 
expansion cf the late 1930's will form the beginning cf money problems 
timed for the early 1940's; but, that necessitous and actual inflation 
will not be probable before 1941 begins. The mass psychology that dis- 
counts inflation is cf an entirely different order than the fear ridden 
psychology which accompanies actual inflation. There is a vast differ- 
ence between actual inflation and credit expansion. The late 1930's 
appear to mark credit expansion, while the early 1940's point to a 
necessitous inflationary interval. 
The general conclusion is that the business indices will reflect a

--- PAGE 22 of 143 ---

SOME CONCLUSIONS 
17 
general upward trend from the lows of 1932 to a high late in 1938. A 
recession is then expected to begin, with the "normal" downward trend 
into 1943 and 1944, violently, but only temporarily, interrupted in the 
inflationary period of 1941 and 1942. After 1943 and 1944 the founda- 
tion for major readjustments actually start, so that by 1950 and 1951 
another, and greater, epoch in American economic life begins; coinciding 
with a new 84 year Uranus cycle, plus the 2000 year and long awaited 
Aquarian Age. 
ADDENDA 1978; World War II fades into history but its deep 
effects have become more and more ominous to the traditions cf Ameri- 
can life. Standards cf value, reduced deficit inflation, traditional moral- 
ity and confidence in the future have been in erosion. The convenience 
and miracle of debt credit under the pressures cf war seems to have 
gripped the populace to get a share and elect those who promise it. 
Inflation is turning from the glow cf prosperity to the ogre cf deep- 
seated inflation. This heritage cf the 1940's includes the national shift 
from the concept of independence to that cf internationalism which was 
given birth in the form cf the United Nations. After 1950-1951 the 
promised new epoch did begin even though viewed askance now. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Chapters 2 & 3 
"Principles cf Radio Communication" by Morecroft. 
"Below Ten Meters " by James Millen and R. S. Kruse. 
"Electronics" issue cf April 1932. 
"Life's Place in the Cosmos" by Hiram Percy Maxim. Appleton 1933. 
"Astronomy" by John Charles Duncan, Ph.D. Harpers 1930. 
"The Universe Around Us" by James Jeans. MacMillan 1929. 
"Earth, Radio and Stars" by Harlan T. Stetson. McGraw-Hill 1934. 
"Astro-Economic Research" by L. J. Jensen. Astrological Bulletina Issues 
198 & 199. 
Chapter 4 
"Astrological Key Words" by Manly P. Hall. David McKay 1931. 
"New Dictionary cf Astrology" by Sepharial. David McKay 1928. 
"Lilly's Astrology "by Wilham Lilly. G. Bell and Sons Ltd London 1919. 
Chapter 5 
"History of the American People" by Woodrow Wilson. Live vols. Harpers 
1901 1902. 
"Florida—Old and New" by Dan. Putnam's 1934. 
"Romantic and Historic Florida" by A Hyatt Verrill. Dodd, Mead 1935. 
"Roger Wilhams" by James E. Ernst. MacMillan 1932. 
"A Century cf Banking Progress" by Wm O, Scroggs, Ph.D. Doubleday, 
Page 1924.

--- PAGE 23 of 143 ---

Section II 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC 
INTERPRETATION 
A MUNDANE ASTROLOGY NOTEBOOK 
FUNDAMENTALS OF ECONOMIC FORECASTING 
Copyright 1938 by L. J. Jensen 
All Rights Reserved 
(NOTE: Chapters 1 to 8 inclusive; material to follow is all new for this edition.)

--- PAGE 24 of 143 ---

FOREWORD 
The scientific world has come far since that day when the French 
Academy cf Science examined Edison's first phonograph and pronounced 
it a clever hoax and product cf ventriloquism. But as great as the me- 
chanical and electrical advances have been, it is only recently that more 
than desultory attention has been paid to astrological premises. The 
average individual fears that which he does not understand. The air of 
mystery surrounding astrology simply accentuates this intellectual fear. 
The normal "protective" reaction is then derision, and sometimes, casti- 
gation. Until recently this "protective" derision toward astro-science 
tenets has persisted with almost fanatical zeal. Now, however—for with 
knowledge develops understanding — serious consideration involves the 
subject. 
The enormous findings and progress in radio and electronics, aero- 
dynamics, weather cycles, et cetera, during recent years, has aroused a 
new interest in the related astrological premises which have been the 
common knowledge cf researchers since the days cf the Chaldeans and 
Egyptians. It is part cf our rapidly moving epoch that much cf this 
ancient material be correlated and clarified so that the modem layman 
can both approach and understand the field. 
This manual makes no pretense cf being either an encyclopedia, a 
complete compendium, or even an introductory dictionary cf astrologi- 
cal tenets and practice. Such a work would include a great deal cf the 
philosophical and scientific works cf history, plus dozens cf volumes cf 
observation in astrological material. This work is, however, the out- 
growth cf a need for a ready reference book which would afford the 
salient working or everyday basis for interpreting Cosmic forces from 
ephemerides. It is the result cf innumerable methods cf procedure that 
were carefully tested in over fifteen years cf observation and study. 
Several methods not included herein, though quite widely used, must be 
rejected for both unscientific and practical test reasons. However, fifteen 
years cf intensive research is far too short a time in which to formulate 
even one dogmatic postulate on the invalidity cf any method in this 
gigantic field cf observation. We are barely on the threshold cf astrologi- 
cal application to economic, political, social and individual maladjust- 
ments with natural laws and forces. The material herein is therefore a 
foundation for practical procedure. 
Although general economics long since applied detailed observational 
concentration to mass psychology, nationalities, and group movements; 
and then formulated individual reactions through group stimuli, environ- 
mental contacts, and heredity, to the potentialities and possibilities of 
one person, astrology has blandly given little attention to anything but 
the individual. This cart before the horse procedure has obviously re- 
tarded any general understanding cf the subject, and, at the same time.

--- PAGE 25 of 143 ---

22 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
prevented an intensive and organized research into its principles. When 
a business organization prepares to open a new territory they carefully 
survey the new field for not only the possible demand for their goods, 
but whether large numbers cf the population are sufficiently prosperous 
to buy. F the territory is generally prosperous then the average in- 
habitant is prosperous. 
The detailed attention to natal astrology, or the analysis cf the indi- 
vidual, has tended researchers to overlook the extreme importance in a 
geographical location and its astrological portents. It is banal to suggest 
a field for electrical refrigerators north cf the Arctic Circle, yet it is 
almost as trivial to insist that the individual is not governed by the group 
and location where he lives. Therefore Mundane or National Astro- 
Analysis is the first and most important part cf astrological interpreta- 
tion. Without it distinct progress in natal astrology would continue to 
remain scientifically fragmentary. 
In spite cf the importance cf the mundane field there are only a hand- 
ful cf three or four published works on the subject, although the ma- 
terials on personal genitures run into hundreds cf volumes. This is 
probably a normal sequence to every individuals' love cf self being first 
in his or her thinking. Each person is interested in his tendencies, his 
destiny, his opportunities, and his chances for finding mental co-ordina- 
tion and happiness. Yet in these days when the world is attempting to 
cast off the remnants cf a Stone Age individualism in preparation for 
the New Age cf co-operation, it is realized that the Not-Self—the cir- 
cumstances around us—is cf greater importance than the Self—our own 
personal ego. So it is that the mundane field cf astrology is both the 
key to national events and individual attainment. 
This brief brochure attempts to present thoroughly tested and practi- 
cal methods cf procedure correlated into as simplified formulae as the 
present state cf the art permits. No new theories or startling departures 
from recognized fundamentals are suggested, even though many cf the 
currently popular theories have been tested and so far found wanting 
in results. The layman whose astrological experience has been confined 
to a few Sun-Sign readings and a perusal cf a few magazines is invited 
to carefuly study the recent brochure, "Major Trends in American Eco- 
nomics," in order to grasp the fundamentals involved in interpretive 
work. 
I am gratefully indebted to a vast number cf authors and corre- 
spondents throughout the world in aligning the procedure herein. The 
interchange and sifting cf the multitude of ideas and premises received 
through these contacts has been cf inestimable value. Probably the 
only original feature cf the entire work lies in the correlation cf the 
methods of procedure. Credit could well be given to a list cf researchers 
and authors too numerous to append. However, I am particularly grate- 
ful to Mr. George J. McCormack, not only as a fellow researcher in the 
American Academy cf Astrologians, and the voluminous mass cf data 
we have discussed in the last several years, but for a part cf the radix 
figure material which forms such a vital part cf the data included herein.

--- PAGE 26 of 143 ---

FOREWORD 
23 
It is mildly probable that this material may come to the attention of 
others than researchers quite conversant with astrological procedure, 
practice and fundamentals. T o these, it should be reminded, that astro- 
logical interpretation is an art rather than an exact science. It deals 
with the entire pattern of human life, from world economics and religion 
to every detail of individual life. Expect far more from the subject than 
has yet been attained by the combined efforts cf governments, politics, 
industry and finance in heavily subsidized natural phenomena research, 
but don't expect the impossible. Medical science is still fifty per cent 
guess work, the administration cf governments continues to be princi- 
pally dependent on political emotion, while orthodox economics has 
made slight progress in coping with the maladjustments cf human life. 
Astro-science has a far better record to offer, in spite cf the situation 
that research into its scientific postulates is yet in its infancy, but allow 
for some interpretive error. 
Kansas City, November 1935 
L. J. Jensen

--- PAGE 27 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
MUNDANE RULERS HIPS 
Tradition teaches that the signs cf the zodiac, the symbols cf planets 
and the earthly influences cf both, were a heavenly revelation to man 
from the dark ages cf the past. Since the time cf the Chaldeans the 
fundamental traditions cf astrological practice have persisted unchanged. 
However, since the tremendous strides in astronomy, electrical appli- 
cations, and aeronautics, in the last half a century, a new depth of 
understanding has become applied to the ancient premises cf stellar 
science. Accordingly, a new foundation for mundane astrology interpre- 
tation is developing. 
Mundane astrology is the study cf cosmic forces in relation to the 
activity, events and circumstances cf countries, cities and groups of 
people. It is astrological economics; or, astro-economics, for purposes 
cf brevity. 
The maior problem in astro-economics has been the allocation of 
zodiacal and planetary rulerships so as to co-ordinate the pnsitinnH of 
the asirai bodies W it 11 a specinc iatitude and longitude on fHe"earth's 
surface. A nuiuberUf earnest researchers have developed several meth- 
ods ct co-ordination, but a complete simplified synthesis has never been 
offered. The work cf Johndro in "The Earth in the Heavens," Cotmsil 
in the "CyclicLocality Dial" and "X Marks My Place," and Sepharial in 
the "Theorv cf Geodectic Eauivalents" bear both the necessitv for care- 
ful examination and profound respect. The thesis developed does much 
to clarify the entire problem. 
However, the problem does not end with sign rulerships. 11 includes a 
difficulty with the two-sign rulerships cf Mercury, Venus and Mars that 
are one cf the problems handed down from antiquity. These two ele- 
ments cf the rulership problem have probably been the greatest deter- 
rents to astro-economic interpretation progress. 
The people cf the present civilization appear to be members of a Fifth 
Race that have inhabited the earth. The divisions cf the Zodiac as 
viewed by this Race locates the sign Leo in the fifth segment cf the 
Zodiac. Leo, the fifth sign, is ruled by the Sun. And the Sun is the 
center of the planetary system cf which the earth is a part. The othe'- 
planets are attributed to govern, or rule, the signs following the sign 
Leo in the order cf their distance from the Sun. viz. Mercurv rules Virgo. 
Venus Libra, Mars Scorpio, Jupiter nw—^Bsturn Capricorn, 
J ranus Aquarius, and Neptune Pisces. 
Unfnrecently the rulerships ended there, although the Moon has 
always been attributed to cancer in modern times, while Aries suggested 
Mars, Venus Taurus, and Gemini Mercury. However, in my own prac- 
tice there have been repeated circumstances which indicated that more 
than Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon involved Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini and Cancer. 
In 1930 the planet called Pluto was located. Its revolution around the

--- PAGE 28 of 143 ---

26 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of 
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of 
the sign Aries. Then during the course cf time three more planets, to 
assume rulerships cf Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As 
Pluto has two times the revolution cf Neptune and Neptune is about 
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will 
probably have a revolution period cf about 660 years, and so on. When 
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership cf the Moon will then 
revert to Pars Fortuna. 
In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much 
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury 
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions, 
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves cf the principal 
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in- 
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is 
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler 
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler cf Aries, Venus 
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler cf Taurus, and so 
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting 
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section. 
But the problem cf aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and 
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a 
multitude cf attempts have been published on the subject, some involv- 
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others 
simply philosophical conjecture. All cf them have a basis in fact, de- 
pending on a particular approach, yet none cf them have worked con- 
sistently for me. After a great deal cf effort, however, the problem 
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis- 
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is 
amply explained by Alan Leo in his "Casting the Horoscope" although 
he seems to miss the application. 
In the 1917 Yearbook cf the American Academy cf Astrologians 
Llorence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the 
Equator and placed 0° cf Taurus at the longitude cf the Pyramid of 
Gizeh. The signs cf the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular 
order. The Pyramid is located at 31° O?1/^' East Longitude. Voluminous 
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the 
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some cf these items are available 
in "A Miracle in Stone" by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents 
only a small part cf the material. The signs are located as follows: 
0° Aries - 1° 07 VY EAST Long. 0° Libra - 178° 52 VY WEST 
O "Taurus 31'07%' " " 0° Scorpio 148052 1/2/ " 
O"Gemini 61° 07 Vz' " " 0° Sagittarius 118° 52 VY " 
0,<Cancer 91° 07 VY " " 0° Capricorn 88° 52 VY " 
O0Leo 121° 07 VY " " 0° Aquarius 58" 52 VY " 
O 'Virgo 151° 07 1/2' " " 0° Pisces 28° 52 VY " 
From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

--- PAGE 29 of 143 ---

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 
27 
belt formed by the earfh's orbit around the Sun. It has none cf the ir- 
regularity cf the constellations and it is the actual zodiac cf geocentric 
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac cf the Constellations; 
when we are thinking in terms cf the Universe in relation to the preces- 
sion cf the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown 
period left 0° cf Aries and now lies somewhere between 28" cf Aries and 
8° to 10° cf Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as 
it was several thousands cf years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris 
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0° 
Aries cf the Zodiac cf the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of 
the planets geocentrically instead cf heliocentrically. The actual zodiac 
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al- 
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership 
as it always has had; but, when we go outside cf our solar system to com- 
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac cf the Constellations which 
is a matter cf precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler- 
ships mundanly. 
During a period of ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing 
and recrossing forty-six states cf the United States and four Canadian 
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made cf the probable 
ruling degrees cf cities and towns. Every type of constellation co- 
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to 
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina- 
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion cf Miss Bar- 
nett's was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144, 
or 12 times 12, each cf the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub- 
divisions of 21/2', and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca- 
tion the first 2 Va 0 sub-division cf each sign be allotted to Taurus instead 
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay 
in a rather distant occult point. 
In some cf the Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in 
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some cf the esoteric phases cf the 
Dwadasamsas, orTVa0 divisions cf the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis- 
piece of Alan Leo's "Esoteric Astrology" for this chart). According to 
this mettiod of~strtirgtvit»'iijn, aacf there are many occuit and scientific 
reasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas of each sign is held by the same 
sign; the first sub-division cf Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision cf 
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major 
zodiacal divisions cf the world and the other the major and sub-divisions 
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that 
this co-ordination works; always. 
T o compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location 
add 1" TV2' to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign). 
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30". The first gives the 
number cf signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and 
the second is the degree of rulership on the M. C. of the location. In the 
Table cf Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column 
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

--- PAGE 30 of 143 ---

26 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of 
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of 
the sign Aries. Then during the course cf time three more planets, to 
assume rulerships cf Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As 
Pluto has two times the revolution cf Neptune and Neptune is about 
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will 
probably have a revolution period cf about 660 years, and so on. When 
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership cf the Moon will then 
revert to Pars Fortuna. 
In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much 
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury 
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions, 
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves cf the principal 
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in- 
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is 
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler 
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler cf Aries, Venus 
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler of Taurus, and so 
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting 
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section. 
But the problem cf aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and 
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a 
multitude cf attempts have been published on the subject, some involv- 
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others 
simply philosophical conjecture. All cf them have a basis in fact, de- 
pending on a particular approach, yet none cf them have worked con- 
sistently for me. After a great deal cf effort, however, the problem 
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis- 
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is 
amply explained by Alan Leo in his "Casting the Horoscope" although 
he seems to miss the application. 
In the 1917 Yearbook cf the American Academy cf Astrologians 
Llorence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the 
Equator and placed 0° cf Taurus at the longitude cf the Pyramid cf 
Gizeh. The signs cf the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular 
order. The Pyramid is located at 3 1° OWa'East Longitude. Voluminous 
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the 
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some cf these items are available 
in "A Miracle in Stone" by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents 
only a small part cf the material. The signs are located as follows: 
0° Aries ■ 1° 07 Va' EAST Long. 0° Libra - 178° 52 Vz' WEST 
O"Taurus 31'07%' " " 0° Scorpio " 
0° Gemini 61° 07 Va' " " 0° Sagittarius 118" 52 Va' " 
0° Cancer 91o071/a' " " 0° Capricorn 88052 1/a' " 
0° Leo 121'07 Va' " " 0° Aquarius 58052 1/a' " 
O"Virgo 151'07%' " " O'Eisces 28° 52 Va' " 
From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

--- PAGE 31 of 143 ---

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 
27 
belt formed by the earth's orbit around the Sun. It has none cf the ir- 
regularity cf the constellations and it is the actual zodiac of geocentric 
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac cf the Constellations; 
when we are thinking in terms of the Universe in relation to the preces- 
sion cf the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown 
period left 0° cf Aries and now lies somewhere between 28° cf Aries and 
8° to 10° cf Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as 
it was several thousands cf years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris 
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0° 
Aries cf the Zodiac cf the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of 
the planets geocentrically instead cf heliocentrically. The actual zodiac 
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al- 
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership 
as it always has had; but, when we go outside cf our solar system to com- 
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac cf the Constellations which 
is a matter cf precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler- 
ships mundanly. 
During a period cf ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing 
and recrossing forty-six states of the United States and four Canadian 
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made cf the probable 
ruling degrees cf cities and towns. Every type cf constellation co- 
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to 
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina- 
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion cf Miss Bar- 
nett's was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144, 
or 12 times 12, each cf the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub- 
divisions cf 21/2,, and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca- 
tion the first 2%° sub-division of each sign be allotted to Taurus instead 
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay 
in a rather distant occult point. 
In some cf the-Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in 
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some cf the esoteric phases cf the 
Dwadasamsas, olTVi0 divisions cf the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis- 
piece cf Alan Leo's "Esoteric Astrology" for this chart). According to 
this method ofsub-di vision, atlcf there are many occult and scientific 
reasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas cf each sign is held by the same 
sign; the first sub-division cf Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision cf 
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major 
zodiacal divisions of the world and the other the major and sub-divisions 
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that 
this co-ordination works; always. 
To compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location 
add 1° 7V2' to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign). 
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30°. The first gives the 
number cf signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and 
the second is the degree cf rulership on the M. C. cf the location. In the 
Table cf Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column 
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

--- PAGE 32 of 143 ---

28 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Kansas City, Mo. — West Longitude 94° 30' 
ADD 1° 7%' 
95"21V2 
Dividing by 30ogives 3 signs 5° 37Va 
Subtracting the result from 30" gives 24" 32 Va' 
So, the zodiacal position cf the M. C. is Sagittarius 24° 32 Va' 
The Latitude is 39° North. In the Table cf Houses 24" Sagittarius on 
the M. C. is 19° 4 Pisces on the Ascendant. 
To compute the sub-division rulership; each sub-division is 21/20 so 
24° is in the 10th Dwadasamsas, which, under Sagittarius is Virgo. The 
beginning cf this 10th Dwadasamsas is yVa0 from 0° Capricorn at 88° 
52%' West Longitude at 96° 22%' West. Kansas City is 24° 32%' 
Sagittarius (94° 30' West); a difference cf I 121/2'. As one thirtieth of 
21/20 is 5 then 112 W computes to 22 degrees cf Virgo which is the sub- 
division MC bringing an ascendant cf 5° 06' cf Sagittarius at 39 North 
Latitude. By using your slide rule the computations are greatly simpli- 
fied. 
A few cf the major division degrees are as follows; 
Boston 18" Capricorn onM. C. 4° Taurus onAsc. 
New York 15° Capricorn " " 28° Aries " " 
Washington 12° Capricorn " " 22° Aries " " 
Chicago 2° Capricorn " " 4° Aries " " 
Los Angeles 1° Sagittarius " " 15° Aquarius " " 
♦

--- PAGE 33 of 143 ---

[£5 
a 
mi 
V, 
il k' 
IB 
a 
mt' 
r m m 
s/i 
»! 
ss 
aiiiHs 
r/x 
BS

--- PAGE 34 of 143 ---

£ 
33 
a 
£ 
z 
30 
12 
<£3 
o 
tL 
Q « 
H 
<0 
z -

--- PAGE 35 of 143 ---

CHAPTER JWO 
PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS 
One cf the most difficult problems in astrological practice is the 
method to use in projecting or "progressing" a radix or birth chart in 
order to analyze the probabilities cf the future. The controversies on this 
point are very heated, and tend to diffuse most cf the fundamentals in- 
volved. The many facets cf the question have no place in a note-book 
manual cf this sort, but I have found that every method in general use 
has some basis cf merit. On the other hand, a small degree cf merit is 
unsatisfactory excuse for using methods which do not stand up con- 
sistently. In mundane interpretation results are cf paramount impor- 
tance. 
The popular methods cf "primary" and "secondary" directions have 
never held up for me. In other words, they work beautifully one time 
and fail utterly at another. Mentally leaping the gap by presuming 
transit "touch-offs" or changes in geographical location never explained 
the problem. The obvious answer should be that planetary positions on 
the tenth or twentieth days after the beginning or birth cannot have any 
effect on the corresponding years cf life. It is physically impossible to 
raise a blister in the twentieth year because cf a burn received on the 
twentieth day. Yet, like the progressive motion cf the precession of the 
equinoxes,and the entire Solar system, there is an analogy between a day 
and a year in interpretive science. It is the occult, the fatalistic, and also 
probably the expression cf the microcosmic within the macrocosmic. The 
diurnal cycle is related to the annual cycle in the same manner as the 
spiritual is related to the physical. One day does relate to one year. But, 
and this seems to be the point, the diurnal and annual (apparent) revo- 
lutions of the Sun are the units cf measure; not the zodiacal measures of 
Mercury, or Mars, or Venus, et cetera. The zodiacal position cf Mercury 
twenty days after birth is effective twenty days after birth but never 
affects the twentieth year cf life. Yet the diurnal, or Sun, measure for the 
twentieth day cf life affects the twentieth year as spiritual, or fatalistic, 
indicator cf the destiny. 
The Sun in its diurnal revolution then becomes the basis cf progres- 
sion in locating the destiny cf the radix subject. It is the key which re- 
veals why everyone, in a true sense, is neither "captain cf his soul or 
master of his fate." It reveals the Radix subject's relation to inscrutable 
and imponderable spiritual law. 
Sepharial in "The Science of Foreknowledge," Alec Stuart in 'The Se- 
cret of the Meridian" and particularly Vivian E. Robson in "The Radix 
System" apply this premise in a most practical and workable manner. 
When the diurnal measure cf the Sun (about 59' 8") is applied in each 
progressed year to every planet in the radix the unit cf the solar measure- 
ment fulfills the entire analogy cf the basic premise involved. The point 
is that it works out most satisfactorily in practice, without the gaps cf the 
"primary" and "secondary" methods.

--- PAGE 36 of 143 ---

32 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
ADDENDA 1977: Since the foregoing, written in 1936, the radix 
system concept has been widely researched in Europe and brilliantly 
presented in several books by REINHOLD EBERTIN cf Aalen, West 
Germany Significant are "Combination cf Stellar Influences," "Tables 
cf Events," "Transits," etc. 
For precise work, and where the ephemeris cf the radix year is avail- 
able, the procedure is to take the position cf the Sun at the day cf the 
Radix in the ephemeris. Count forward as many days as years are to be 
progressed and compute exactly how many degrees, minutes and seconds 
the Sun moved. Add this amount to the longitude cf every planet in the 
Radix and also to all cusp positions. "Secondary" directions occur when 
the Moon's total travel is added to the position cf the Moon in the Radix. 
When the ephemeris cf the year cf the Radix is not available use the 
average daily rate cf the Sun's travel—59' 8" for each year; and the 
average daily travel cf the Moon—13' 10' 35", for the "secondary" di- 
rections. The condensed table cf measure will be found in the note sec- 
tion. This method is valuable in estimating the "fate" or long term out- 
look from corporation, national and other mundane figures. The portents 
do not involve specific happenings however. Always keep in mind that 
they simply time the indications or materialization cf the indications cf 
the Radix. 
For practical and detailed interpretation and forecasts cf specific 
tendencies and events an application cf the annual revolution cf the Sun 
seems consistently accurate. The basis is the annual return cf the Sun to 
the same position it occupies in the Radix. A chart set for this moment 
indicates the events cf the year to follow, and diurnal figures based on 
this Solar Return times those events and indicates by daily and actual 
planetary positions in operation the motivation and specific timing cf all 
events. 
The method is to erect a chart for the moment cf the Sun's return to 
the position it occupied in the Radix. Then the Sidereal Time cf this 
chart is a base for each diurnal chart cf the year. For practical purposes 
one minute (1') cf Sidereal Time is added to the Radix Sidereal Time 
for each day after the day cf the Solar Return, and the ephemeris posi- 
tions of the planets are the diurnal day in question are entered in their 
proper places. For example: 
Compute the Sun's exact position in the Radix. Then erect a figure for 
the nearest previous Solar Return to that place. It will be necessary to 
compute the time cf the Return to minutes and seconds in Greenwich 
Mean Time. Then transpose this G. M. T. to True Local Time by sub- 
tracting four minutes for each degree cf WEST Longitude, or ADDING 
four minutes for each degree cf EAST Longitude. Then calculate the 
Sidereal Time cf the Solar Return at the geographical location in ques- 
tion, which may not be the Radix location. This Sidereal Time is the 
base for the diurnal figures cf the year, by simply adding one minute for 
each day to the Solar Return S. T. For illustration, say the Sidereal 
Time of the Solar Return figure is 12-24—31, September 1st. We want 
the diurnal for November 1st. To the Sidereal Time cf the September

--- PAGE 37 of 143 ---

PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS 
33 
1st chart add one minute (!') for each day, (30 days from September 
1st to October 1st; 3 1 days from October 1st to November 1st) or 61'. 
12 24 31 S. T. Solar Return (Sept. 1st) 
61 Increase 
13 25 31 S. T. of Diurnal (Nov. 1st) 
Enter the house cusps according to the proper latitude and the planets 
positions from the ephemeris for November 1st. The Radix and pro- 
gressed Radix positions are added in their proper sign positions. 
The tb^nry involvine-this method is that although the sidereal year 
and the tropical year only diffgr-fey the amount ot fHiTprecession of the 
equinox (about 50^.2), the sidereal year is 35S.2563b mean solar days 
^rhile there is a sidefeaTtTmc difference cf about §ix hours, or one quarter^ 
day, between two Solar Returns. Our calendar handles this by comput- 
ing one year as 365 days and every fourth year adding a day. To illus- 
trate: Use the Sun's return at 0° Aries in a geocentric ephemeris. 
Solar Return fireen wich Time 
March 21st, 1929 2:35 a.m. 
March 21st, 1930 8:30 A.M. 
March 21st, 1931 2:06p.m. 
March 20th, 1932 7: 54 p.m. (Leap Year) 
March 21st, 1933 1:43 a.m. 
March 21st, 1934 7:28 A.M. 
March 21st, 1935 1; 18 P.M. 
March 20th, 1936 6: 58 P.M. (Leap Year) 
Twenty four hours cf mean solar time are equal to 24 hours, 3 min- 
utes, and 56.5554 seconds cf sidereal time. This, however, at the rate of 
gain cf 3 minutes, 56V2 minutes a day approximates an entire day each 
year and so prevents any upset to our premise. 
For strictly precise work in the diurnal charts it would have to be 
recognized that the orbital speed cf the Earth around the Sun is not uni- 
form, but varies in accordance with Kepler's principle cf the Law of 
Areas. There is an equation cf time in the difference between mean and 
apparent solar, or Sun, time. This reaches as great a maximum value as 
PLUS 14 minutes 28 seconds on February 11th, and as much as MINUS 
16 minutes 21 seconds on November 3rd. Therefore the Sidereal Time 
difference between two Solar Returns, computed at 0° cf Aries, will be 
between five and one half and six hours;—not exactly one quarter day 
each year. T o compute the exact daily increment cf Sidereal Time to be 
added to diurnal charts it would be necessary to locate the daily orbital 
speed cf the Earth; or else, divide the total sidereal time differential, 
between the two Solar Returns involved, by 365.25. But in interpreta- 
tion we are not concerned with exact aspects, inasmuch as there is an orb 
of influence in all planetary vibrations. This greatly simplifies matters as 
for all general purposes we can simply add one minute (f) for a day. 
In interpretation of these diurnal charts, house rulerships, as outlined 
in the note section, and cuspal points, should receive greatest attention.

--- PAGE 38 of 143 ---

34 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
A complete pattern cf the actual cosmic stimuli, as it is applying at the 
specific geographical location in question, is patterned on the chart. 
Events cannot only be timed to the hour but often to the minute. When 
used with the United States charts the coincidence with governmental 
acts, news events, and important decisions is often astonishing. The ap- 
plication is more fully discussed in the section on Synthesis. 
ADDENDA 1978: readers cf the foregoing material in the 1936 
edition reproduced here complained cf computation problems. Short-cut 
or more simplified methods were requested. I admit the subsequent de- 
mands cf daily work forced faster although less precise mathematics, 
with good quality results. See the chapter: An "Over
1-Simplified 
Method, etc.

--- PAGE 39 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
SYNTHESIS—ESTIMATING 
ECONOMIC TRENDS 
In spite cf the many mechanical problems involved in astro-science, 
the greater difficulty concerns interpretation cf the charts. The approach 
toward precise interpretation can be taught, but the actual interpretation 
must be learned. No one can teach the actual synthesis cf all the po- 
tentialities cf a chart; it is a natural ability cf co-ordination one either 
possesses or is without. However, there are many salient factors which 
anyone, with some application and study, can apply and use for practical 
purposes. F these factors are applied properly the layman is able to at- 
tain results quicker, while the practiced interpreter can achieve better 
results. 
Planets are in constant angular relationship to one another and to the 
earth. Each angle is a different facet or blend cf the vibratory forces 
involved and results in a different psychological motivation than another 
angle. Every degree cf 360" has its specific nature. For practical pur- 
poses, and in line with the rules involving angles graphically illustrated 
and discussed in the companion brochure "Market Charts," only a few 
cf the angles can be considered. These angles, or aspects, principally 
used are the 30°, 60°, 90°, 120°, 150° and 180° on both sides cf the 
circle. Sometimes the angles cf 45° and 135° are also valuable indi- 
cators. None cf these aspects are, in a true sense, unfavorable; but, as 
some generate compression while others generate expansion, the tend- 
ency is to term the compression aspects unfavorable and the expansion 
aspects favorable. The 30°, 60°, and 120° are favorable; the 150° is 
doubtful, and the remainder unfavorable. 
In the synthesis cf a chart the natures cf the planets, the personality 
of each sign, the meanings cf the houses and a knowledge cf the aspects 
are all involved. The chart is like a jar cf fluid arriving in the laboratory 
for analysis. The chemist analyzes the fluid for its complete content. 
The interpreter cf a chart proceeds in the same manner, weighing each 
part. 
In estimating business and market trends my first procedure is to lo- 
cate the primary, or major, swings cf the indices involved. This appears 
to be involved in the Great Mutation cf 240 years portent. Set a Solar 
Return figure based on this radix (see note section for chart) each year. 
For the day to day indications use the diurnal method already discussed. 
The radix and the diurnals are set for the capital cf the country in ques- 
tion. 
Such a series cf charts set over the last seventy five years show a coin- 
cidence between the unfavorable aspects cf major planets and economic 
depression, and the favorable aspects with recovery and prosperity. In 
this period the thirteen times Uranus and Saturn were in unfavorable 
aspect coincides with thirteen periods cf general economic decline. In

--- PAGE 40 of 143 ---

36 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
the nine times these planets were in favorable aspect decided gains in 
business activity were registered seven times, and mild gains in two 
times. Since 1896 Uranus and Jupiter have been in favorable aspect 
twenty eight times. In every case these aspects coincided with gains in 
business activity. The July 8th, 1932 depression low coincided with an 
exact trine cf these planets on July 9th, 1932—the day the upward 
thrust began. A synthesis cf the relationships by aspectjmd.sign posi- 
tions cf JupitSfcSsturn and Uranus, nlns the Sun Soot Cycle is the 
framework upon whicEto project the primary trends cf business and 
markets. Additional details are brought out in the companion brochure, 
"Major Trends in American Economics." 
T o discover how the national cycles cf business, or the primary trends, 
will effect a particular locality superimpose the Solar Return and diur- 
n a 1 'en the house positions cf the locality in question according to the 
rulership procedure in Chapter One. 
The intermediate, or secondary, trends within the primary trend be- 
come more involved. The primary trend base is retained in mind as of 
major importance; then a figure is set for the Vernal Equinox. This 
figure holds rule for the year and the diurnals for each day to follow are 
based on its Sidereal Time. However, the implications cf the quarterly 
Ingresses which follow take precedence over the particular quarter in- 
volved. 
The minor trends, seldom cf more than a few days duration in the 
same direction on the statistical charts cf business activity and markets, 
are the most difficult procedure cf the three types cf trends included. In 
normal times, where supply and demand operates freely, a barrage or 
string cf favorable aspects will bring upward movements, and a string 
cf unfavorable aspects the reverse. But when periods cf abnormality 
occur, and the economic machinery is broken down, the rule cf favorable 
and unfavorable aspects does not hold on the minor trend because cf one 
or more major motivating forces which cuts df or neutralizes the tempo- 
rary minor forces. Such situations develop regularly, such as the opposi- 
tion aspect cf Saturn to Neptune which was in force during 1935 and 
will be more strongly in force in the first ten months cf 1936. Lunation 
figures reveal their influences. 
The change from one sign to another by a planet coincides with 
change in trend and general psychology, depending on the magnitude 
and speed cf the planet. Mercury changing signs is a powerful market 
factor, for instance, in this connection. 
Jji commodity markets the Moon is important: in marking turns. The 
time of TRe~New Moon; or Eunation, and the^Fiill Moon, arcPcritical 
commodity points; and, if a commodity makes a high (or a low) on one 
key day it will maintain its new trend until the next key day. Occasion- 
ally key days develop simultaneously and thereby mark extremely criti- 
cal points. Those days termed key days are when the Moon is in square 
aspect to either Mercury, Mars or Venus. Another factor cf importance, 
particularly in commodity markets, are the planetary hours cf each day. 
Their use in hour to hour observations is cf great value.

--- PAGE 41 of 143 ---

SYNTHESIS —ESTIMATING ECONOMIC TRENDS 
37 
For corporation events, and the probable activity cf their securities, 
use as a radix chart the mundane house positions described in Chapter 
One; and the methods cf Chapter Two set for the date cf incorporation 
and located at the place cf the home office. IF the exact data is known 
set the diurnals according to the Sidereal Time cf the exact Solar Re- 
turn. IF not, it is best to watch the interaction cf the transits in connec- 
tion with the incorporation radix set for the home office location and its 
radix positions and progressions, according to mundane rulership cusps. 
Some success can be attained by using the diurnals based on the Solar 
Return cf the New York Stock Exchange radix at the corporation home 
office location and superimposing the corporation radix positions on the 
diurnals. In the matter cf markets, however, it must be stressed that 
technical market factors, and particularly the statistical market charts, 
are the yardsticks cf market action. Motivating influences are reflected 
by the planetary positions, but there must be a yardstick first. 
The student cf business trends quickly realizes that it is a fundamen- 
tal law that supply and demand are never equal for any length cf time. 
All the man made economic planning ever conceived will never upset 
that law. The problem cf droughts, insects, scourges and rainfall can 
never be completely controlled in growing commodities. An average of 
many crops will about coordinate with basic demand, but to have every 
crop at exactly the average is impossible. Yet shortages at one geo- 
graohical location and suroluses at another can be detected bv the inter- 
weaving cycles which average out to the major cycle. These inter- 
weaving cycles can be estimated for mundane rulerships (geographical 
locations) by using major conjunctions as the radix or beginning point. 
The rotational conjunctions are very useful also. 
In the Jupiter-Saturn Rotational Radix (see chart section) the point 
cf wheat is found by subtracting the position cf the Sun (at the conjunc- 
tion moment) from the position cf the conjunction and adding the 
Ascendant. This is a radix point entered and used in much the same 
manner as Pars Fortuna is used in a natal chart. In the 1901 figure for 
London this point fell in the second house in conjunction with the Moon 
at 12" 36' Cancer and opposing the point cf conjunction at 14° 0' 18" 
Capricorn. This figure included the period cf the War, when wheat 
shortages were intense. In the 1921 Conjunction (Jupiter-Saturn) at 
London the point cf wheat is in 10" 43' Leo in conjunction with Neptune 
and Venus. The point cf barley is found by subtracting the place cf the 
Moon from the place cf Jupiter and adding the ascendant; sugar by 
subtracting Mercury from Venus and adding ascendant; rye by sub- 
tracting Mercury from Saturn and adding ascendant; cotton by sub- 
tracting Mercury from Mars and adding ascendant. These "points" are 
to use for supplemental purposes, however, for though they work in a 
unique manner the scientific basis for them is not clear. The basic idea 
was suggested by Pallicus in an unpublished manuscript now in the 
British Museum. 
The cycles cf each planet, viz, Mars, Venus, etc, are so well known as 
significant co-ordinates with the cycles of various phases cf economic

--- PAGE 42 of 143 ---

38 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
life that they need not be repeated here except to call attention to them. 
The layman will find the seven lessons on Mundane Astrology, issued 
by the Brotherhood cf Light at Los Angeles, valuable in this connection. 
In the problems involving aspects, orbs cf influence, etc, the probable 
moment cf greatest intensity cf an aspect is sometimes disconcerting. At 
one time, particularly where mundane rulership figures are concerned 
and in aspects to cusps and radix positions in diurnal figures, aspects 
seem to be strongest when approaching than when exact or passing. At 
other moments the reverse seems to occur. It is not the fault cf the 
computations in the ephemeris or the figure involved, but appears to be 
caused by the mean obliquity cf the Ecliptic. In 1936 this is 23° 25' 
51".40; the difference between the earth's poles and the ecliptic's poles. 
This obviously throws every point cf the zodiac measured at the Equa- 
tor, except Aries and Libra degrees, cff in declination from one to four 
degrees. Depending on the declination depends whether the approach- 
ing, the exact, or the passed aspect is most powerful. Such a situation 
can delay a market turn, marked by an aspect cf slow moving planets, 
as much as several months; and in the case cf an aspect cf rapidly mov- 
ing planets, several days (and cf course, conversely, ahead cf the ephem- 
eral positions). This is particularly noticeable in 1935 when the im- 
portant aspects involving Gemini, Cancer and Leo practically all were 
strongest when approaching or ahead cf time, while those involving 
Sagittarius and Capricorn were behind time. This is a problem to in- 
volve careful consideration by observers.

--- PAGE 43 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
THE HOUSES IN MUNDANE 
AND CORPORATION CHARTS 
FIRST HOUSE: General circumstances and temper cf the people, their 
general health and vitality and sense cf optimism or pessimism. 
CORPORATION: The place cf the corporation in relation to the 
public, its stockholders, and business objectives. (Note ruler cf asc. and 
aspects). 
SECOND HOUSE: Government Treasury, banking and currency con- 
ditions, business and trade activity, taxation and national income; all 
matters cf money. 
CORPORATION: earnings and profit abilities. 
THIRD HOUSE: Transportation and communications, including rails, 
telephone and telegraph, commercial radio, demand for stocks and 
bonds, trade volume, technical publications, financial and trade relations 
with adjacent countries, short distance travel. 
CORPORATION: Relations with competitors, transportation and 
communications, some advertising, bookkeeping accounts, internal agree- 
ments. 
FOURTH HOUSE: Real property, mining, crops, public works and 
buildings, weather, anti-administration faction in politics, exploration, 
socialization. 
CORPORATION: Tangible assets, direct competition, power cf com- 
petitors, hazards involving property. 
FIFTH HOUSE: Amusements and entertainment, including theatres 
and radio; phases cf publishing, publicity and advertising; children and 
places where women and children congregate; the emotional aspects of 
mass psychology; domestic welfare cf the nation; speculative activity 
and conditions. 
CORPORATION: Subsidiaries or branches, advertising success, in- 
come from capital, the place cf deposit cf capital such as safes, vaults, 
and banks, the motivating center. 
SIXTH HOUSE: The state cf public health. Army and Navy, condition 
cf the masses — particularly labor, net financial results cf fifth house 
affairs, foodstuffs, wearing apparel. 
CORPORATION: Employees — including their character and health, 
corporation connection with hostelries, agriculture and agricultural 
products, working equipment, fixtures and furnishings. 
SEVENTH HOUSE: International relations, including treaties; threats

--- PAGE 44 of 143 ---

40 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
cf war and overtures cf peace; foreign trade; marriage and divorce, in- 
cluding civil suits opposed to popular opinion; opponents. 
CORPORATION: Public accountings; adjustments; employee income 
and payrolls; volume cf sales; best method cf sales appeal. 
EIGHTH HOUSE: Foreign finance, including effects cf foreign ex- 
change; financial results cf treaties; the cabinet cf the government; op- 
position to trade balances; national budget; flow cf money; taxation; 
death rate. 
CORPORATION: Credits; private conferences; all confidential in- 
formation and trade secrets; the board cf directors; net earnings. 
NINTH HOUSE: The courts; legal, religious, philosophical and scien- 
tific developments; foreign trade and shipping; long distance travel; 
foreign news; insurance; resources cf labor and the masses. 
CORPORATION: Completion cf contracts; litigation; audits; in- 
surance; shipping; affiliations at a distance; inter-company correspond- 
ence. 
TENTH HOUSE: The president or ruler; mayor cf a city; political 
activity cf the party in power; vested authority; business activity and 
turnover; leaders. 
CORPORATION: The corporation head, or administrative depart- 
ment (note particularly the positions and aspects cf the Sun); general 
business conditions; relations with government and associations. 
ELEVENTH HOUSE: The Senate; The House cf Representatives; 
financial results cf government policies; money volume cf business activ- 
ity; legislation affecting business and government activity; government 
obligations; utilities. 
CORPORATION: Corporation friends; resources cf the head cf the 
organization; political connections; constitutional policies; the good-will 
and intangible assets; indebtedness in bonds, mortgages, etc; treasurer. 
TWELFTH HOUSE: All limitations, secrets, and moral obligations cf 
government and business; the results cf litigation; all public institutions 
such as reformatories, jails, hospitals and asylums; all speculative fea- 
tures involving eighth house affairs; all secret dealings involving the 
country. 
CORPORATION: Experimentation and research; trade secrets, for- 
mulae and methods; limitations through secret enemies, including in- 
efficiency; effects cf litigation. 
KEY-WORDS FOR INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS 
Sun (Q)—Government and administrators, authority, gold, specula- 
tion, theatre as a business, etc.

--- PAGE 45 of 143 ---

HOUSES IN MUNDANE AND CORPORATION CHARTS 41 
Moon ( 5 )—Masses, crowds, crop harvests, popular ideas, sea, water. 
Mercury ( 5 )—Media, trade, commerce, publishing, advertising, doc- 
tors, printers, short travel. 
Venus ( ? ) — architecture, art, fashion, music halls, recreation. 
Mars ( $ )—Army, Navy, surgeons, war, violence, epidemics, iron, steel, 
explosives, machinery, munitions, tobacco, sports. 
Jupiter (4)—banking, brokers, courts, churches, favorable aspects 
abundance, unfavorable extravagance. 
.Saturn ( t> )—favorable aspects: patience, unfavorable: loss depression; 
labor and laboring places, the land as cf farms, grain,, mines, real 
estate, mountainous places, the aged. 
Uranus ( $ )—favorable aspects: change, unfavorable: disruptive; air- 
craft, electronics, railroads, tornadoes, strikes, radio energy, utilities, 
political socialism. 
Neptune ( T )—favorable aspects: creative, unfavorable: deception; 
actors, beverages, hospitals, bogus business operations, narcotics and 
drug companies, oil, photography, political idealism. 
Pluto ( P ) — favorable aspects: cooperation, unfavorable: compulsion, 
dictatorships, atomic energy, plutonium, sewers, rackets, crime. 
(The foregoing are samples cf a wide range cf applications; experience 
soon will suggest additions.) 
ADDENDA 1978. Since publication of the foregoing in 1936 several new ephem- 
erides have been developed and a wide exchange of books and magazines has taken 
place. In this situation American, British and Oriental studies use slightly different 
symbols from those most used in Continental Europe. For example, the Pluto symbol 
in European style seems to be a distorted Venus symbol of the American British 
form. Other sometimes disturbing differences appear in symbols for other planets. 
In this text symbols now growing in general acceptance are used. Note the often 
used symbol for Uranus, often mistaken for Neptune, is the European form. Unlike 
the symbol for Mars there is a dot in the ring and the stem is a vertical arrow.

--- PAGE 46 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FIVE 
ECLIPSES 
One of the most important factors in mundane interpretation is to 
follow the effect cf eclipses. Eclipses are most intense in their effects 
where they are visible. Sepharial's rule for finding the duration cf the 
effects of an eclipse is: find the distance cf the eclipsed luminary at con- 
junction or opposition from the Node. Then if 5° be divided by this 
distance, the magnitude cf the eclipse will be obtained. Then for dura- 
tion—as 1 is to 60, so is the magnitude to the number cf months the 
eclipse will indicate. Thus: 
Distance from Node Magnitude Years Duration Months Duration 
For interpretation cf eclipses refer to "Eclipses in Theory and Prac- 
tice" by Sepharial, and Raphael's "Mundane Astrology." 
¥4° 
Va0 
3/4° 
1 0 
l1/40 
IVa0 
l3/40 
2 0 
21/40 
2%" 
2%° 
3 0 
3V20 
4 0 
5 0 
6 0 
8 0 
10 0 
15 0 
20.00 
10.00 
6.66 
5.00 
4.00 
3.33 
2.857 
2.50 
2.22 
2.00 
1.818 
1.67 
1.43 
1.25 
1.00 
.833 
.625 
.5 
.333 
100 
50 
33 
25 
20 
16 
14 
12 
11 
10 
8 
7 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
6 
8

--- PAGE 47 of 143 ---

CHAPTER SIX 
INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS 
IN THE HOUSES AND SIGNS 
When the student cf astrology has mastered the mechanical phases cf 
interpretation and begins to estimate the many influences involved in 
each chart many difficulties develop. A planet or house in one position 
is effective in a manner different from another position. The text-books 
contain tremendously voluminous tabulations cf all the shades cf mean- 
ings in each position, but then probably every possible meaning has 
never been in print. The whole problem cf life and living is involved 
in a chart. Either more years cf experience than can be crowded into 
one lifetime or a gargantuan memory would completely meet the prob- 
lem. However, there is a simple way cf getting into a chart, which does 
not attempt to tax the memory, and at the same time holds to simple 
first principles. 
As discussed under Chapter One the Sun is attributed to rulership of 
the sign Leo, the fifth mundane house. The Sun's "personality" is colored 
by the fifth house influence but when it is in a chart its action depends 
on its sign position in relation to the sign Leo, with Leo as its first house. 
In other words the Sun in Leo is the Sun operating in a first house 
manner, but the Sun in Aquarius is the Sun operating in a seventh house 
manner — Aquarius being the 7th house from Leo. Now, in a radix the 
Sun may be in Leo in the 10th house. Then the Sun is operating in a 
first house manner through, or giving expression to this first house man- 
ner, the 10th house. In the same manner, Virgo is the first house cf 
Mercury (it rules Virgo); then Mercury in Capricorn would be the 
Mercury nature or "personality" working in a fifth house manner, plus 
some of the eleventh house because it is the lower octave ruler cf 
Gemini. 
When the nature cf each planet is learned, and the rulerships applied, 
a mental "key-word" system soon develops which quickly tabulates in 
the mind a large number cf meanings to every planetary and sign posi- 
tion. Then if the text-books giving the multitudes cf meanings are used, 
to build up a further understanding cf specific meanings, progress can 
be made. The sooner a student is able to get away from reference works 
the better his ability cf perception and interpretation becomes. 
The basic texts for this are many. Alan Leo stressed this method cf 
approaching what he called "memory co-ordination" but text-books ap- 
parently ignored the complete practicality cf the point. However, re- 
cently Sidney K. Bennett developed several texts on interpretation along 
these lines which are cf enormous interpretive value, to both the student 
and the professional, and decidedly worth their published price to both 
layman and student. 
In mundane interpretation there is a great lack cf reference material.

--- PAGE 48 of 143 ---

44 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
For general purposes Raphael's "Mundane Astrology" and A J. Pearce's 
"Textbook cf Astrology" are most useful. 
In connection with planetary positions by both sign and house, de- 
tailed interpretation finds a tremendous source cf help in taking cog- 
nizance cf the fixed stars. Authoritative texts on this phase cf the field 
are, "The Fixed Stars and Constellations" bv Vivian E Rnhgnn. and 
Johndro's "Stars'*j "FIXED STARS and their interpretation" hv Khertin- 
Hoffman; English ^iHofrpul3lj|Kgcl 191 Shy gbertin-Verfag.

--- PAGE 49 of 143 ---

CHAPTER SEVEN 
CASTING MUNDANE CHARTS 
Mathematical precision to the second is not necessary in setting a 
geocentric chart cf the heavens. Although there is no harm in comput- 
ing every figure with the mathematical methods cf an astronomical 
observatory the time consumed is far better placed on interpretation. A 
simple method cf working is as follows. An ephemeris designed for 
astrological work for the years to be considered, a Tables cf Houses, and 
blank chart forms are needed. 
First, enter on the chart blank the house cusp degrees and signs. 
This is done by converting the time data to standard time, if in day- 
light saving time; then find how far the location is in degrees from the 
nearest Standard Meridian Time Line. Add four minutes for each de- 
gree the location is East cf that meridian, but subtract four minutes for 
each degree it is West (if West). The result is True Local Time. 
In the ephemeris take the sidereal time for noon PRLVIOITS to the 
chart location time and ADD: 
(1) Sidereal Time for noon previous in ephemeris 
(2) 10 seconds correction for every 15 degrees longitude 
(3) The interval between previous noon and chart time 
(4) 10 seconds correction for each hour cf this period 
The result is the sidereal Time cf the chart. 
I 
Tnder the proper latitude in the Tables cf Houses find that sidereal 
time which is closest to the sidereal time cf the chart and from the 
Tables enter the signs and degrees on the proper house cusps cf the 
chart. 
Second, enter the planets in the houses cf the chart. 
Find Greenwich Mean Time by multiplying the degrees cf longitude 
by 4 and divide by 60', and add to the True Local Time, if West Longi- 
tude. 
By logarithms, simple proportion, or preferably mathematical tables, 
compute the distance cf travel cf each planet since the Greenwich 
Time and zodiacal place shown in the ephemeris. Some ephemerides 
show the places cf the planets at noon and some show them at midnight 
—make sure which. 
Enter the computed positions in their proper places on the chart. 
Third, compute the declinations and latitudes cf each planet and 
tabulate these positions. 
Fourth, tabulate all the major aspects in a speculum, and from the 
section of notes in this manual tabulate the natures and powers cf each 
planet. 
(Note: diurnal figures are cast according to Chapter Two)

--- PAGE 50 of 143 ---

CHAPTER EIGHT 
NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
The hundreds cf volumes which have been consulted over a period cf 
many years, combined with tests and practice cf the many methods 
presented, has gradually evolved the material in this manual. The 
pages which follow are the framework cf a ready reference note-book 
which is in daily use. The layman will find much cf the data difficult to 
apply, but if the text-books referred to in the foregoing chapters are 
consulted the applications will be immediately made clear, for these 
notes are cf valuable assistance.

--- PAGE 51 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS , KEYS 
10 
m 
34' 
8 
30'> 
7 a 
30' 
55 ^ 
v ^ 
U3 v 
00 O) 
cv 
2 
5) 
34' 
2 
TTl 
02'I 
THE GREAT 
MUTATION-1842 
Japiter-Saturn cf 
January 26th, 1842 
0 :19';53" A.M. 
Washington, D.C. 
Bears rule of econ- 
omic conditions to 
2082 A.D. 
2 
K? 
34' 
5= > 
? ct, q 
. * « 
« O 
19 
cc ^ 
10 
30' 
30' 
NOTES

--- PAGE 52 of 143 ---

48 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
7 
T 
3 
<1 
17 
,V5 
26 | 
X 
43 
ROTA- 
TIONAL CONJUNC- 
TION JUPITER-SAT- 
URN, Septenrber 9th, 
1921—11:07 P.M. 
Washington, B.C. 
Supplement figure 
of Great Mutation 
28/35' 5 
26 / 
43 
17 
U? 
o. 
9 
Oo v 
. ^ 00 
^ A 0 
& ^ 
■ 10 Y& 
ai CP v \ ▼- 
o? OX $0 
>cs~ 
o 
m? 
fi o 
-cs
1 
Ml 
18 
NOTES

--- PAGE 53 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
49 
20o.2 
SI 
19°.8'j 
% '> 
14035' 
08".3 
^14° =51' 
16o50' 
5S".8 
13o.0' 
oo o cv lo <o . 
^ o / 
^ oV 
o+' 
X> ^ 
CHART OF 
THE DECLARATION 
OF INDEPENDENCE— 
July 4th, 1776. Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 0:20'P.M. 
UNITED STATES CHART 
o^' 
S.T. 7 ;13':05.9" 
G.M.T. 5:20:40 
P.M. 
.1108' 
» 
14°35' 
T 
108".3 
TTL 
13o0' 
-j 0 0 \ vU 
V\ 
16o50' 
vs 
55".8 
^0 
20o.2, 
'ig°S' 
NOTES

--- PAGE 54 of 143 ---

50 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
16 
9 
T 
4- 
rOp ^ 
J cf 
> ^ 
""■  
<D 
to 0 
° 
>> VO jJ 
\ 3 
25| 
37' 
RADIX 
NEW YORK STOCK 
EXCHANGE 
May 17th, 1792—at 
8:52 A.M. T.L.T. 
According to 
Parker's Ephemeris 
New York City 
S- rt. 
9 
Jt 
15 
25 
KJ 
37 
23 
NOTES

--- PAGE 55 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
51 
8 
m 
O 
S >1 
a. 
Sj 
<s 
fv 
27 
-V 
r*.' 
18 
R 
12 
vS 29W 03' 
LIVERPOOL 
GRAIN EXCHANGE 
August 28th, 1201 
(Old Style) 
118 
« 
112 
27 
K 
8 
T 
9 
NOTES

--- PAGE 56 of 143 ---

52 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
25 
16 
O 
o 
fO 
x> 
TH ^ to 
00 N 
12 
o. 
/ 
V 
<s, 
17 
27 
a 
30 
BANK 
OP ENGLAND 
April 25111,1694 
(Old Style) 
27 
1 30 
12 
lU 
16 
o> 
S) ^ 
7? 
25 
NOTES

--- PAGE 57 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
13 
22 
^5 
'*'29 
35 
February lath, 1859 
11 :10 A.M. T.L.T. 
)_[ 110 X 49 
20 
CHICAGO. ILL 
 D 
22 
^ 
V K 
o 
P 
CP 
o 
.x, 
14 
NOTES

--- PAGE 58 of 143 ---

54 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
10 
10 
v O 
O ^ 
-o f 
% u 
tJ p 
y-1 to 
18 
■$'sy 
fJJ ri> 
nA 
27 
3 
X I 
41 
&26^ 
■-S3' 
^ 40X41' 
RADIX 
UNITED STATES 
STEEL CORPORATION 
February 25th, 1901 
10:30 A.M. 
Trenton, N. J. 
\6 ^ 38' 
26 < 'TISS' 
3 
! 41 
'TTL 
a 
10 
HE 
8 
NOTES

--- PAGE 59 of 143 ---

[OCR] NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

NOTES

55

--- PAGE 60 of 143 ---

[OCR] 56

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

--- PAGE 61 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
57 
THE PLANETS THE SIGNS 
Sun—G Moon—]) Mercury—^ Aries—T Taurus — ft Gemini—# 
Venus—9 Earth—ffi Mars—S Cancer—E5 Leo—SI Virgo—TIE 
Jupiter—II Saturn—>> Uranus — § Libra  Scorpio—IJ Sagittarius—^ 
Neptune—UJ Pluto—9 Capricorn—V3 Aquarius—™ Pisces— 
PLANETARY AND SIGN NATURES 
CARDINAL SIGNS—Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn 
FIXED SIGNS —Taurus,Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius 
COMMON SIGNS—Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces 
FIRE SIGNS—Aries, Leo,and Sagittarius 
EARTH SIGNS — Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn 
AIR SIGNS — Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius 
WATER SIGNS—Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces 
POSITIVE SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and 
Aquarius 
NEGATIVE SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and 
Pisces (Positive signs are masculine, negative are feminine) 
BARREN SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, and Virgo 
FRUITFUL SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Pisces 
INDIFFERENT SIGNS —Libra, Capricorn, and Aquarius 
PLANETARY 
PLANETARY POWERS REVOLUTIONS 
Detri- 
Exalta- 
Planet 
Rules 
ment 
tion 
Fall Earth—365 days 7 hours 
SUN — 
a — 
— 
T 
— -n- 
Moon—28 Days around earth 
VENUS — 
- 
TTIT — 
— n 
Mercury—88 days 
MERCURY — 
- 
X'X - 
W 
— a 
Venus—224 days 
MOON — 
s - 
V5 — 
8 
— m 
Mars — 1 year 322 days 
SATURN — 
V3 — 
£5 — 
- T 
Jupiter— 11 years 322 days 
JUPITER — 
— 
X - 
£5 
— vs 
Saturn-—29 years 167 days 
MARS — 
Tdu) — ===(«) - 
(V5) 
— (£5) Uranus—84 years 
URANUS — 
^ — 
a — 
Tf 
— 8 
Neptune—164 years 167 days 
NEPTUNE — 
X - 
HE — 
£5 
— VS 
PLUTO — 
T — 
-n-   
W 
— £S 
DECANATE SIGN DIVISIONS 
DECAN r 
b 
IT s 
Jl 
TTJc 
J\- 
TR 
K 
AAA 
X 
(T-W0 r 
b 
I 
s 
Jl 
TTV -n- 
m 
-A^VS. 
/WN 
X 
H"-go* JI 
-/V- 
TR 
yd 
r 
b 
n 
& 
zr -so' 
T 
H 
IT 
<!7 
Jl 
rrh 
~n- n

--- PAGE 62 of 143 ---

58 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
DECAN r 
a 
H 
S 
Jl 
-fU 
S 
iff 
/WS 
« 0 
1 
* 
3> 
0 
? 
o* 
H 
3 
¥ 
U'-Kf 0 
% 
f 
0* 
* 
5 
/ 
J> 
H 
5 
V 
& 
f 
2 
0 
o* 
DECANATE PLANETARY RULERSHIPS 
CRITICAL DEGREES 
(Planets or house cusps in these degrees have 
intensifled effects) 
Aries 1°, 13°, 26". 
Taurus 9°, 21°. 
Gemini 4°, 17". 
Cancer 1°, 13°, 26° 
Leo 9°, 21°. 
Virgo 4°, 17°. 
Libra 1°, 13°, 26". 
Scorpio 9°, 21°. 
Sagittarius 4°, 17". 
Capricorn 1°, 13°, 26" 
Aquarius 9°, 21". 
Pisces 4°, 17°. 
PLANETARY 
TIME PERIODS 
Moon—4 years 
Mercury—10 years 
Venus—8 years 
Sun —19 years 
Mars—15 years 
Jupiter —12 years 
Saturn—40 years 
Uranus—90 years 
Neptune—180 years 
TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE 
Add to the Longitude cf the Moon the Longitude cf the Ascendant 
and subtract the longitude cf the Sun from the total. 
TO CALCULATE GREENWICH MEAN TIME 
FOR ANY POINT WEST LONGITUDE 
Add four minutes for each degree cf longitude the location is WEST 
cf Greenwich to the true local time at the location. 
TO CALCULATE TRUE LOCAL TIME 
To the nearest Standard Meridian Time, ADD four minutes for each 
degree the location is EAST cf the Meridian corresponding to that 
time. If the location is WEST cf that Meridian, SUBTRACT four min- 
utes for each degree it is WEST thereof. 
TO CALCULATE THE ADJUSTED CALCULATION DATE 
(for secondary directions) 
(a) Compute the interval from G. M. T. to following noon 
(b) To this interval add the Sidereal Time for G. M. T. noon on the 
radix day—this equals the Sidereal Time cf the Adj. Calcu. Date. 
(c) IF the G. M, T. falls in the a.m.—count forward in the ephem- 
eris. 
(d) I" the G. M. T. falls in the p.m., or in the am. cf the next day, 
count backwards. 
TO ADJUST CUSPS FOR A POINT 
REMOTE FROM THE RADIX LOCATION 
To the Sidereal Time cf the radix, if the direction be EAST, ADD— 
if the direction be WEST, SUBTRACT—the difference in longitude.

--- PAGE 63 of 143 ---

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 
59 
reduced to hours and minutes. With this new Sidereal Time the house 
cusps cf the new location are taken from the Tables cf Houses. The 
planets are inserted in the same zodiacal signs, degrees and minutes as 
in the radix chart. A new Part cf Fortune position is calculated accord- 
ing to the revised Ascendant. 
TO PROGRESS A RADIX FIGURE WHEN AN EPHEMERIS 
IS NOT AVAILABLE 
(Note section on Progressions and Transits in this manual) 
Years 
Arc 
Months 
Arc 
Days 
Arc 
1 
0 59' 08" 
1 
4' 45" 
1 
0' 10" 
2 
1 58' 17" 
2 
9' 51" 
2 
0' 20" 
3 
2 57' 25" 
3 
14' 47" 
3 
0' 30" 
4 
3 56' 33" 
4 
19' 43" 
4 
0' 39" 
5 
4 55' 42" 
5 
24' 38" 
5 
0' 49" 
6 
5 54' 50" 
6 
29' 34 
6 
0' 59" 
7 
6 53' 58" 
7 
34' 30" 
7 
T 09 " 
8 
7 53' 07" 
8 
39' 26" 
8 
T 19" 
9 
8 52' 15" 
9 
44' 21" 
9 
T 29" 
10 
9 51' 23" 
10 
49' 17" 
10 
T 39" 
Compute Moon's rate: 13° 10' 35' per year 
MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY PLANETS 
Aries is the first sign cf the zodiac and occupies the first house in 
the natural zodiac. Its ruler is Mars. Therefore no matter where Mars 
falls in a radix figure it exerts a first house influence. In the same way, 
Venus ruling Taurus the second natural zodiacal sign is a financial and 
second house influence; Mercury, ruling Gemini, is a third house in- 
fluence, etc. 
SIGN 
r 
B 
n 
G 
Sl 
-A- 
TTl 
ts 
yWA X 
RULER 
? 
V 
D 
o 
a* 
5 
¥ 
V 
HOUSE 
1 
2 
3 
4- 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY SIGNS 
Mars, (self, aggression, etc) a first house influence, when located in 
Taurus (the natural second sign), exerts its first house influence in a 
second house or money and finance manner. The selfness and aggres- 
siveness cf a Mars in Aries becomes (in Taurus) money aggression. In 
a mundane radix figure this position, for illustration, might appear in 
the fifth house. This would presage (Mars in Taurus in the 5th) money 
aggression through speculative (5th) channels involving agriculture, 
real estate, and mines (With the sign Taurus on the fifth cusp, Aries— 
ruled by Mars—would be on the 4th)

--- PAGE 64 of 143 ---

60 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
The key to the entire planetary house pattern is as follows: 
? 
J) 
O 
? 
4 
3 
V 
T 
1 
12 
M 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4- 
3 
2 
d 
a 
1 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
n 
3 
2 
1 
12 
II 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 4 
9 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
Jl 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
11 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
II 
10 
9 
6 
7 
A. 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
II 
10 
9 
8 
TTL 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
M 
10 
9 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I 
12 
II 
10 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I 
12 
11 
l( 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
12 
X 
12 
II 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
I

--- PAGE 65 of 143 ---

CHAPTER NINE 
THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART 
A basic premise cf astro computation procedures is precise timing as 
mandatory before accurate interpretation can occur. It is only by chart- 
ing the exact moment of the first breath of a child at birth registers the 
implications of the lifetime which follows. In much the same tradition 
the birth or beginning of a business plan or project, a company or a 
nation often reveals future successes, dangers and disasters. Many en- 
tire lifetimes have been spent devising, guessing, testing chart times cf 
beginnings. 
A major example in the past 50 years has been the United States 
birth, with controversy and almost endless debate over what is the cor- 
rect birth chart. Such debates are good exercises in research but none 
cf them are cf value in actual financial decisions. Many years ago a 
very earnest researcher came to me with a record cf transits to the 
position cf the Moon in the July 4th, 1776 United States Chart. Hind- 
sight seemed to prove specific market action for years in the past with 
this system. A new convergence was to occur in a matter of weeks. It 
failed completely. 
The location of the Moon is one position in the Noon or Libra Rising 
chart at the left. This figure long was accepted as official inasmuch as 
the Declaration of Independence got its last signature about 11:20 A.M. 
and the official public announcing, by a Town Crier, was a few minutes 
after 12 noon. But critics rose to attack the time of the chart. Libra 
Rising with Saturn were not the image or American spirit, or so their 
interpretation methods claimed. 
In research bulletins of the American Academy of Astrologians, sub- 
sequently amplified in my articles in the ASTROLOGICAL BULLE- 
TINA, and then presented in the chapter on The Uranus Cycle, the key 
was^the 7th tn Qth degrees of Gemini. Uranus was crossing this area 
on July 4th, 1776, jusFas ft had done at the tor'ming of"the first cot5H\r 
ljy"~tKe~Spanish in 15A again "in the formation of the Jamestown 
ColQny~Tn~T^07V'tttT?r"the timing nf the 1691 Revolution. 
Due principally to this observation opinion began to use 2: 19 A.M. 
July 4th, 1776 as the chart time for the USA birth. It placed Uranus 
exactly on the Ascendant and the M. C. in Aquarius with the Moon 
nearly conjunct in the 10th house. No longer was the Moon in 24° but 
at 18°, promptly ruining the mass of doctrine on progressions, etc. 
Students who have spent 25 years and often far much less in astro re- 
search study currently boldly proclaim this early morning chart as the 
Gemini figure and authentic key to the USA for the past, present and 
future. Arguments are endless but the innovative, compassionate, sci- 
ence aspiring Uranus on an Ascendant is more romantic than a cautious, 
systematic, thrifty Saturn. 
For years members of the Continental Congress discussed prepare-

--- PAGE 66 of 143 ---

62 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
tion cf a formal statement of principles. The formation cf a committee 
of three was authorized the morning of June 10th, 1776 to draw up a 
declaration to be submitted to the Congress. Thomas Jefferson did the 
actual writing which the committee presented. When was the initial 
idea born? But it is historical fact the people of the 13 colonies learned 
that independence, probable war and internal dissension became official 
in a do or die decision about noon. 
In the chart for noon Saturn is a key. As Llewellyn George often 
said to me "Saturn is discipline, tenacity, just and tinged with puritan- 
ism; but it has a bad name as reaper and depressant of excesses." The 
most cursory examination of the transits.o^Saturn in theXISra Rising 
chart through the 9th, 10th and 11th Houses in American history, is a 
cloctCtTmirTg'probte s. When Saturn has been asoected bv other slow 
movhig-planet positions at each of these periods the effects are specific. 
The phenomena may be now traced back for two centuries for confirma- 
tion. One obvious example was in the years immediately following 
1929. Foreign affairs in the 1920's had been beyond the capacities of 
private enterprise credit and financial resources and the confidence 
which accrued. A major effect of the 1929 crash was mortgage fore- 
closures on a broad scale. Reference to page 39 of section II lists house 
meanings. In 1930 expansive and optimistic Jupiter was at the MC of 
the USA Libra chart reflecting business activity, vested authority, etc, 
opposed by Saturn the reaper and depresser at the cusp of the 4th house 
(real property, tangible assets, anti-optimistic vested authority, etc). 
T o compound this stern indication was the square of Uranus near a 
conjunction with Mars near the cusp of the 7th house (foreign relations, 
foreign trade, worker income and payrolls, sales volume cf business, 
etc.). This forms a devestating negative situation and for the USA 
notably severe. The first signs of any relief did not appear until the 
second quarter cf 1932 with the initial financial recovery apparent as cf 
July 9th under the trine of Jupiter and Uranus with Saturn weak and 
retrograde in Aquarius. 
Comparable inspections may be made from an ephemeris cf the year 
involved and planetary positions compared. Use aspect interaction and 
the related USA Libra chart positions according to planet meanings on 
page 49. Admittedly this is a very simple approach, but effective. Next 
then is ignore for the moment any "birth" such as the foregoing USA 
figure. In 1930 Jupiter moved into the sign cf Cancer at mid-year. 
On page 59 the horizontal column liirtM-jWpitpr gg ruling (he aign, 
Sagittarius. In the columns covering page 60 Jupiter in Cancer is 
"Jupiter's 8th house position. Under 8th house on page 40 an 8th house 
Jupiter centers attention to foreign finances, money flow, credit, etc. 
When in this Cancer sign position an opposition from Saturn plus the 
square of Uranus forms an ominous economic portent. The situation 
continued in an unrelenting fashion and then worsened as the Moon's 
Node neared a conjunction with Uranus to magnify the effects of the 
stellium of Uranus, Saturn and Jupiter. 
As noted on page 58 Jupiter makes its full circle approximately every

--- PAGE 67 of 143 ---

THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART 
63 
12 years. A return to the sign Cancer, for an example cf a different 
climate tEan the early 1930's, was in 1954. The nation, in fact the 
world, had struggled through the ruins cf World War II and seemed to 
have contrived a foundation for renewed growth. People generally were 
discouraged and doggedly hoping for better things but were at low ebb 
in 1953 (Saturn in conjunction with Neptune in Libra squared by 
Uranus in the sign Cancer.). However, in 1954 Jupiter moved into 
Cancer while Saturn shifted into the sign Scorpio (a trine). The Uranus 
Neptune square aspect activated inflated credits in its release from 
Saturn, while the Moon's Node was sextile Neptune. The belated sec- 
ondary post-war boom was underway. Serious exhaustion did not de- 
velop until late in 1965 although reactions and readjustments appeared 
in 1957, 1960 and 1962. Examination cf those years in terms cf the 
foregoing methods may prove a valuable investment in interpretation 
skills. 
(N. B. In your initial examination — using only the ephemeris for the 
years involved, make note cf the sign-house cf each planet, viz Neptune 
in Libra is its 8th; Saturn in Libra its 10th. Thus Neptune in its sign- 
house 8th reflects unlimited aspirations for money in co-operative plans 
with others. Uranus Cancer is Uranus 6th sign-house denoting public 
spending for military, public works, ecology, nurture of labor & agricul- 
ture.) 
The ultimate in interpretation tools is found in proven "birth" time 
as chart formations with the location usually the capital of a country. 
But for serious mundane conclusions charts erected for each quarterly 
ingress a year and all the lunations are useful. Locations selected de- 
pend on the subject matter. Here is a juncture where a maze cf com- 
putations and stacks cf charts can form which defeats the basic study; 
direct and simple means cf aiding a conclusion without nit-picking the 
impossible. 
Often it is sad and very wry to read or hear about some group of 
scholars, economists and statisticians had compiled masses of data which 
programmed a huge computer. The answer was that employment would 
increase and in another period cf so many months unemployment would 
shrink to so much. It is all very well but grasp the time and efforts in- 
volved to conclude these generalizations. Your batting average may 
never be 100% but with some time and concerted effort it can be far 
ahead of the pro group. Of course, we also have to be realistic in realiz- 
ing the majority only listen to what it wants to hear and what fits their 
hopes or misgivings at the time. 
Forecast a probable boom and no one believes it. When it occurs 
they say they are sorry they didn't listen. Forecast an economic or mar- 
ket peak and a barrage cf quotes that so and so, or this and that source, 
states things are going much higher. Then remorse when the peak is 
confirmed no action was taken. But that is the way of life; people work- 
ing out their own bumbling destiny the hard way and often to die in 
frustration and considerable despair. Generally denied only a very few 
exert the effort and stamina to find Nature's immutable laws and actu-

--- PAGE 68 of 143 ---

64 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
ally heed them. Only very bad forecasts, which are from 50 to 100% 
wrong, are generally heeded as they seem to have the profound ability 
to get into print and be widely quoted. A person has to dig out his own 
progress if it is to be lasting. It can open up extraordinary opportunities. 
Learn through texts the inherent qualities and features cf each planet 
as experienced from ancient times. Expansive and generally benefic by 
themselves are Jupiter and Venus; Mars vigorous, aggressive, forceful, 
etc. And the angular relations are extremely significant. Briefly, two 
classes cf angles dominate; one is the 90° span cf 90, 45, 22 Va, etc; the 
other the 120° group cf 120, 60, 30, 15, etc. Sometimes both occur in- 
terlocked at one time such as 3 15's making a 45. These related degrees 
are, with inherent planet qualities, intensely important and often super- 
sede the various complete chart figures. 
Close grasp cf the significance and operation cf angular relationships 
are very important. In the concluding section cf this work these angles 
become the foundation cf the program used to define probable market 
trends as to prices and timing cf swings and probable amplitude, using 
the daily, weekly and monthly price ranges cf stocks and commodities. 
The preceding two sections—major cyclic trends and cyclic interpre- 
tation factor are a simplified foundation for the real goal cf workable 
methods.

--- PAGE 69 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TEN 
AN "OVER
7'—SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF 
ASTRO-CYCLE INTERPRETATION 
Traditionalists call for the erection cf astro chart figures based on a 
precise time and place. For mundane subjects such as business and 
market trends this means charting the exact time cf the four quarterly 
Ingresses cf the Sun as each quarter-year begins. The place is the 
locality considered the center cf the subject such as a national capital. 
Supplementing the Ingress figures are each New Moon, and sometimes 
each Moon Quarter. This practice is mandatory for precise results. 
The new student trying to get into the field without the tedium cf 
perhaps months cf study may find this simple method encouraging and 
profitable, and ignore tradition. 
The initial requirement is an ephemeris for the period to be studied. 
The immediate and current year usually contains the interest. A geo- 
centric eohemeris is needed; this is a revised version cf the official 
heliocentric ephemeris issued by a number cf governments for military, 
naval and other astronomical applications. As we are interested in the 
effects cf solar and other cosmic radiation and reflective rays on the 
Earth a heliocentric (Sun as center cf the angular relationships) 
ephemeris would be a distortion from the standpoint cf the Earth. 
Most complete ephemeris is RAPHAEL'S for the year desired. Pub- 
lished in London for a century it is available for about $3 a copy through 
most bookshops. More available and in a simple format is the Rosicru- 
cian Fellowship Ephemeris, P. O. Box 713, Oceanside, Calif. 92054 at 
$1.50 for each year desired. (Note; although not used in this simple 
method later work will require a Table cf Houses. Several are available 
with the most economical and simple to use is that cf the Rosicrucian 
Fellowship. The various blank forms may be deferred.) 
Instead cf theorizing let us take an example and work on it as an 
illustration you can check out for yourself. It is the afternoon of 
August 1st, 1976. Current newspapers and business magazines are 
chortling over bullish trends. Opinion seems general things are con- 
solidating for a long boom. The statistics continue to reflect steady gains 
since the upswing began in early 1975 in business and the low cf stocks 
late in 1974. Very nice! We can go back to sleep, buy more stocks and 
continue to rake in the business as things are better than they were and 
are all set to be better for a long time ahead!! Typical? Yes, and usually 
wrong. 
So get a sheet cf paper, a pencil or a pen that writes an original, and 
that ephemeris for the year 1976 and August. On the 1st we find funny 
looking things heading columns cf figures. We want the page carrying 
DECLINATION OF THE PLANETS. 
Out of this apparent maze cf columns we shall only check three;

--- PAGE 70 of 143 ---

66 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Uranus ( 3 ) 
Saturn ( ^ ) 
Jupiter (if ) 
3 Scorpio (Jfl) 
6Leo (<?L) 
27 Taurus (^) 
Taurus in the zodiac circle is opposition (180') Scorpio and 
square (90°) Leo. This means that Leo is square both Taurus 
and Scorpio. 
In the above Jupiter has small potency as it is not "in orb" to Uranus 
and Saturn, but the latter are in orb. Taking the three as a unit the 
news reports and forecasts are "whistling in the dark to bolster their 
spirits." The foundation is precarious. 
Reference 60 Section II Jupiter in Taurus ( U b ) is a 6th sign house 
in a 2nd house sign; our notes show this involves money for national 
health and safety (it could refer to vaccine, relief from flood) but also 
an unusual demand for money by organized workers. 
Next, the Uranus in Scorpio ( 6 Til) again refer to page 60; an 8th 
sign house in a 10th sign house suggests a large number cf public policies 
are viewed as irrational in matters cf spending and taxation, foreign 
affairs, currency and foreign exchange. 
And last, Saturn in Leo ( h fb ) a 5th house sign in an 8th sign house. 
National apprehension over children and their lack cf freedom cf choice 
in education, low standards of public morality, debate on national budg- 
ets and taxes, lack cf financial speculative confidence. 
The only action in this three-way is Saturn (curtailment, discipline) 
is directly in mutual assault with Uranus (innovation, impulsive, emo- 
tional) and with Jupiter momentarily inactive (out cf orb) we have a 
nation confined largely to routine pursuits. It seems to reflect the early 
August state due to the political situation. The same forces affect other 
nations; various degree of turmoil, revolution, war and war threats are 
occurring in Asia, Africa and Middle-East. 
As the newspapers report, the statistics are good; but the astro-cycle 
data state it is a neutral and precarious situation. Conclusion: it is a 
period for caution. For the probable time and direction cf change we 
examine Jupiter's pattern several months from now. Then the basis cf 
a forecast will begin to form. 
In the astro-cycle data the obvious basis for the upswing in the stock 
market from mid-1970 (the very favorable aspects between Jupiter, 
Saturn and Uranus) was due to subside as sign changes developing in 
the last half cf 1972 neutralized the bullish psychology. The Transport 
Average tried a new high in the second quarter (1972) to broach the 
preceding triple highs cf 1966, 1967 and 1968-9 but failed by a fraction 
and declined. But the Industrial Average continued strong and sur- 
mounted their preceding 1966 and 1968 highs until January 1973 when 
weakness took hold. Jupiter in Capricorn formed a conjunctions with 
the Moon's Node and a full square (90") to Uranus in Libra while 
Saturn was retrograde and neutral in Gemini. In January the Trans-

--- PAGE 71 of 143 ---

"OVER— SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF INTERPRETATION 67 
port Average broke the preceding low in October and implied a bear 
market, although full confirmation cf the Transports by the Industrials 
did not occur until November 1973. This established a very bearish 
market climate for 1974. 
Historically this has become an unusual area cf national economic 
affairs. Peculiar intrusions into supply-demand factors cf commodities 
and the export markets with unprecedented price distortions were 
dwarfed by revelations which ruined the Administrative branch of 
government. In our "over
1-simplified astro-cycle examination for 1974 
we find the Moon's Node in Sagittarius with Saturn in opposition 
(180'). Then in April Saturn moved from Gemini into Cancer (this 
crosses the Mid-Heaven c£ the Jimliv 4th 1776 U. S. Chart^ the 4th 
House Sign and 7th Sign HotHseworking toward the square (90°) re- 
lation to Uranus in Libra (7th House Sign, 9th Sign House). 
By September 1974 stock market liquidation became rampant, 
despite a weak (retrograde) Jupiter forming a trine angle to Saturn, 
as both the Moon's Node and Uranus remained virtually unchanged. 
Then, late in November, Uranus moved into Scorpio and conditions 
changed. By mid-December Jupiter was direct again, moving toward a 
trine with Saturn, which was beginning to get the effects cf a growing 
trine from Uranus. T o strengthen the pattern the Moon's Node reached 
a climax by crossing opposite the 9th degree cf Gemini, with a sextile 
from Pluto which was trine the 9° of Gemini. This was the spot for a 
massive low in the stock market for a recovery cf at least 15 to 18 
months. 
If careful study of the foregoing three paragraphs in relation to the 
ephemerides for the years is made by the notes cf the economic key- 
words, the technique should become clear. But you are stymied by some 
factors not mentioned in the examples. They involve the Moon's Node, 
Pluto and the Jupiter-Saturn link. 
In Section I the discussion on the twenty-year cycle was the periodic 
conjunctions cf Jupiter and Saturn. For more than 100 years cf busi- 
ness and investment market statistics, beginning in 1812, the booms 
and depressions were geared to the angular relation cf Jupiter and 
Saturn. An enormous amount of time and expense was applied to col- 
lect the data and public records earlier than 1897. Thej-elationship,^, 
was further explored in the 1930's apd—presented in a book by James 
Mars Langham. ~~ ^

--- PAGE 72 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ELEVEN 
THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES 
BETWEEN PLANETS 
The 360" circle cf the astro chart is divided into twelve segments of 
30° each. These segments are the signs. Their significance forms a 
division; four signs are cardinal, four are fixed and four are mutable; 
and another division cf three Fire, three Earth, three Air and three 
Water. The first forms a triangle visually and the second group a 
square when drawn on the 12 segment circle. Thus, planet aspects are 
cf two groups, the square and the triangle or trine. 
There is the conjunction or 0° in both groups. The square group 
includes; the semi-square or 45" (/)> the square or 90° (□), the 
sesquiquadrate or 135° ( □,) which is 90° plus 45°, and the opposition 
or 180° ( ,9 ). Generally all are unfavorable. 
The trine group has the conjunction under certain conditions, the 
semi-sextile or 30" ( Y ), the sextile or 60° (>)<)> the trine or 120° (A ) 
and the quincunx or inconjunct or 150° (A). Parallels (||) depend on 
the plants involved. 
In market trend interpretation the squares generally are bearish, the 
trines bullish. Again there are circumstances when such an arbitrary 
rule does not apply. There are specific answers to such problems but 
things become rather involved in more advance studies involving sign 
location cf a planet and its Detriment, Exaltation, Fall, Critical degree 
and Orb cf Aspect. And expecting precise action, such as a market 
peak, at the day and hour an aspect becomes exact, may fail. Often 
the reason is that an orb cf aspect should be allowed, about 2 to 5% 
usually is generous, PLUS a trigger. A trigger is a fast moving planet 
coming into the major aspect, particularly Mars, sometimes Mercury. 
Hindsight will discover it on study from which experience will develop 
so advance interpretation can take place. No two situations ever are 
alike. 
The conjunctions cf Jupiter and Saturn were but a small part cf 
defining market trends. But when the various aspects noted in the fore- 
going are followed in the ephemeris cf the statistics cf the year being 
examined the parallel between planetary aspects and the statistical 
trends soon takes form. 
In the 1930's and 1940's this usual pattern began to break up. Dis- 
concerting lags began to appear; most data was failing. Examination 
found Uranus aspects becoming potent. Some cf the phenomena cf the 
Uranus 84 year cycle was detailed in Section I. As time went on it was 
found that the shift cf economic and money power from private forces 
to the budding Washington Bureaucracy was developing a new set cf 
rules. Private Capitalism and Free Enterprise were more and more 
coming under political control through rules cf a bureaucratic structure. 
It was the principal index to the panic liquidation of 1973 and 1974

--- PAGE 73 of 143 ---

THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES BETWEEN PLANETS 
69 
discussed in the foregoing. T o the almost perfect score presented by 
James Mars Langham on the interaction cf Jupiter and Saturn in busi- 
ness and finance for over a century it has been more complicated since 
World War II. 
Another useful factor applied to the interpretive procedures in the 
foregoing is to use the cycle data cf the Moon's Node. 
The symbol in the ephemeris cf the Moon's Node is ( ft ). Other nodes 
exist but we shall ignore them at this time. This Moon's Node we 
mention is more exactly the Moon's North Node. It regresses (counter- 
clockwise instead cf the clockwise movement cf the planets) and makes 
the full circle in about 6 months more than 18 years—for our purpose 
call it 18 years. 
Using that unexplained and unique North American continental 
point cf 7°—9° Gemini as zero or starting point an unusual business 
cycle cadence again appears. It seems to intensify and at times cushion 
the interaction patterns cf Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. (Note; recall it 
was shown how potent this zero node point was in the timing cf the 
Uranus cycle, for example the timing of the first settlement in 1523, etc.) 
Application cf the aspects, both bearish and bullish, to the Moon's 
Node in the ephemeris for each year, and using the Gemini point as the 
conjunction on which to form sextiles, squares, trines, etc, the major 
market trend takes form. The squares approximate major lows. But 
lows after sextiles differ in intensity than lows after trines. In 1976 
there is a quincunx or inconjunct following an opposition. Squares for 
the lows in this particular cycle were early 1961, 1970 and 1979. For 
study it is suggested, beginning with the square following the sextile in 
1932, process each year of the stock market with the Moon's Node 
aspects in order to grasp the method yourself. 
Another element in our chain cf factors is the probable effects of 
Pluto. Relatively new in tracing its probable use it appears to intrude 
underworld thinking related to autocratic power ranging from gang 
warfare to misuse cf established authority. It has generally been as- 
signed to rule the sign Scorpio. This bears very careful scrutiny. For 
many reasons having no place for discussion here it seems to relate 
more to Aries than Scorpio. Debate is unnecessary but in defining 
situations where Pluto is prominent consider the Aries climate. Inci- 
dentally for a long, long time Mars has been assigned to rule Aries AND 
Scorpio, with Pluto assigned as co-ruler of Scorpio which is subject to 
doubt. 
When some facility has been acquired in co-ordinating the planets in 
their House Signs, then their Sign Houses, their aspect relationships 
from the proper ephemeris, on your note pad, refer to the Keywords in 
the group arrangement which follows for your budding interpretation 
progress. In the course cf time you then will want to cast complete 
charted figures using the Table cf Houses already mentioned. Locations 
selected as mentioned also start with the Ingresses and then the Luna- 
tions.

--- PAGE 74 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWELVE 
COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH 
HOUSE-SIGNS AND ASPECTS 
Trend conditions at any given time are vital in any investment 
action. If the major trend is upward investment hazards are minimal; 
making commitments in a major downward trend or during a rally 
correction in a downward trend can be hazardous. Let's try to illustrate 
a process by which circumstances can be defined. We select a memo- 
rable and most confused period. 
In mid-May 1942 both the national and international situation was 
considerably mixed. The impact cf an attack on Pearl Harbor in the 
preceding December had the domestic scene in a general state of 
feverish doubts. Turn to Raphael's ephemeris for 1942 and note May 
15th. There was a lunation or New Moon at 5:45 AM. GMT, but we 
will not plot it out at this point as too complicated. The individual 
planet positions have our attention. 
Neptune (T ) in (11])) Virgo: 7th Sign-House in a 6th House-Sign, 
heavily afflicted (negative aspected). This reflects rumors, false and 
true; and a chaotic emotional state among the masses relating to Armed 
Services, food, clothing, jobs and the enemy. With a wide conjunction 
by Moon's Node, which is precisely square the critical national point of 
9° Gemini ( X ) which signals a classic low in economic trends, it can be 
a memorable point in history. 
Uranus ( S ) in 5th Sign-House and 3rd House-Sign, a general state 
cf apparent disruption and seemingly chaotic situation in transportation, 
feverish attempts to coordinate plans and action by authority, which is 
downgraded by public emotions, as 
Saturn ( h ) in 6th Sign-House in 3rd House-Sign, is precisely at 
apparent conjunction with Uranus. The people (6th) and 3rd (com- 
munications, ideas) feel scared, uncertain, even licked. Briefly adding 
to the crisis is Mercury ( 5 ) in its 1st and 4th Sign-Houses in the 3rd 
House-Sign, amplifying the foregoing and adding worry over property, 
crops, etc. And then Venus (?) 12th Sign-House in 1st House-Sign in 
square aspect (unfavorable) to Mars in Cancer (25) 4th Sign-House in 
10th House-Sign. This latter hopes but distrusts national leadership; 
briefly void-of-course (without strong aspects) from the Sun-Moon con- 
junction. 
If we think these notes on each planet through we realize the same 
vibrations are world-wide. Obviously the response varies from environ- 
ment and location how each factor may be most dominant. 
Turn to the chapter on MUNDANE RULERSHIPS. The Raphael 
Ephemeris positions as cf noon GMT May 15th, 1942 are entered in 
rulers/lip charts set up for Washington, Tokyo, Berlin and London as

--- PAGE 75 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
71 
appended. Note all planet positions are alike but houses differ. The 
foregoing interpretation applies to all of them but the locality charts 
reflect enormous differences in the accents and psychology in each 
location. 
The London figure has an 11th house concentration which centers 
national affairs on government policies and finance, planning, legislation, 
business and national policies. Ruler cf the 10th (leadership) in the 
Ascendant (the people) marks a belligerent unity with Venus in 10th 
enthusiasm; dogged will to come out on top. 
Berlin differs little in problems and practice except Pluto is on the 
Ascendant (The People) reflecting a full dictatorship. The Venus to 
Pluto aspect is waning and past the MC; and square Mars dominates 
the 12th, amply reflecting a police state. 
The Tokyo figure has leadership (10th) placed in 7th (foreign ad- 
versaries), indicated by the Sun, and most concentration on 7th house 
(foreign) affairs and 8th house (costs and plans cf 7th). The people 
(Mars ruler cf 1st and 6th) giving cooperation as the square cf Venus 
is below the horizon confined to misgivings by youth and children. 
Neptune marks illusions cf success while the Node in the 10th marks 
a feeling cf well being. 
The Washington chart has the Gemini concentration past the Nadir 
and working upward with all-out attention to planning, finance and all 
resources directed to (Saturn ruling 10th) conj. Uranus ruling 11th 
(legislation, etc) on longer term. Neptune in 6th allows unleashed 
rumors, but the people (Asc) are unifying (Venus Aries) with a spirit 
of willingness to fight in the streets (ruler cf 1st at cusp cf 4th), if 
necessary; a vigor is stirring. 
This chart should be something cf a classic. It marks most positions 
under the horizon (the low ebb cf a cycle) but most positions rising 
(new beginnings). In the latter is the major conj. cf Saturn-Uranus in 
Gemini with Mercury and Jupiter. I" a nation, emotionally and physi- 
cally, was ever lower it is hard to find. That it is a low is reflected by 
the Node precisely square its critical point at 9° Gemini FOLLOWING 
a Trine (this differsfrom a subsequent square following sextile by the 
Node). 
As noted several times 7 to 9 degrees cf Gemini mark a unique 
national hinge or critical point. The Node takes about I8V2 years for a 
complete cycle, something over 9 years for each half. Its apparent mo- 
tion is counter-clockwise. To further explore the background the 
England critical national point seems to work out at 14° cf Gemini. Un- 
til recent years comment was constant that major British events always 
had a similar counterpart later in the United States. British devalua- 
tion, British stock market bear markets, British election upsets and 
some time later much the same appeared in American affairs. Usually 
it timed to the aspects to the Node critical points.

--- PAGE 76 of 143 ---

72 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
NIW UOOH—M»y 16, 5*. 46fll. Si. •.». 
M Lat. Dec. Lat. Dec. Lat. Dec. 
10 
MAY, 1942. 
[R AP H ABL'S 
Neptune. 
1N21 
1 21 
1 21 
1 21 
1 20 
I 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
1 20 
I 20 
1 20 
2N15 
2 15 
2 16 
2 17 
2 18 
0S11 
0 11 
0 11 
0 11 
0 10 
2 18 
2 19 
Herechel. | Saturn. 
19N49 
19 51 
19 52 
19 54 
19 55 
1S4718N13 
1 4618 17 
1 4618 20 
1 46'18 24 
1 4618 27 
Jupiter. 
Lat. Dec. 
0 S 13 
0 13 
0 13 
0 13 
0 12 
22N57 
22 58 
23 0 
23 2 
23 3 
0 10; 20 
1 46|18 
1 4618 
1 4518 
1 4518 
1 45 18 
10:20 
10120 
1020 
10120 
10120 
10t20 
30 
34 
37 
40 
44 
"47 
50 
53 
56 
590 
20 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
Mars. 
Lat, 
1N25 
1 25 
1 25 
1 25 
1 24 
1 24 
1 24 
1 24 
I 23 
1 23 
Declin. 
24N50 
24 47 
24 44 
24 41 
24 36 
23 
23 
23 
23 
23 
10 23 
1 23 
1 22 
1 22 
1 22 
1 21 
1 21 
mmsTPF 
24N49 
24 46 
24 43 
24 39 
24 34 
24 28 
24 22 
24 15 
24 
8 
24 
0 
23 61 
23 41 
23 31 
23 20 
23 
9 
T)" D Sidereal 
M W Time, 
B. M. S. 
2 35 o 
2 39 4 
2 43 1 
2 46 58 
2 50 
© 
Long. 
iU O X-O A/if 
w ] 
TH 
F 
S 1 
» I 
2 54 
2 58 
3 2 
3 6 
3 10 
11 26 
12 24 
13 22 
54T4 20 
51 
© 
Dec. 
3415 
44 15 
52 15 
59 16 
3 14 
3 18 
3 22 
3 26 
3 30 
3 34 
3 38 
3 42 
3 46 
3 50 
15 19 
16 17 
17 15 
18 13 
19 11 
5 
Long. 
3 / 44 
18 47 
3v^38 
18 11 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
26 
43 
59 
16 
32 
47 
3 
18 
32 
47 
2=522 
16 10 
29 35 
12X41 
25 30 
D 
Lat. 
5 1 
5 2 
4 42 
4 3 
3 11 
2 9 
1 1 
oss 
1 16 
ST 5 
20 29 
2 y 44 
14 51 
26 53 64 52 
D 
Dec. 
15 58 
17 58 
18 42 
18 
]) Long. I t Dec. 
Att.lA G 35 
11? 16 
26 14 
10V157 
20 
11(25 
14 17 
16 32 
13 56 
10 40 
6 55 
2 57 
95=19 
22 55 
■6X11 
19 7 
1T49 
33115 
54 12 
IN 6 
5 2 
8 42 
11 58 
14 43 
14 18 
26 37 
8y48 
20 53 
2n51 
24 58 
25 56 
26 54 
27 52 
28 49 
3 53 
3 57 
4 1 
4 5 
4 9 
29 47 
0n45 
1 43 
2 40 
3 38 
26 Tn 
13 42 
17 38 
21 35 
25 31 
29 28 
33 25 
42 19 
32(19 
21119 
8119 
54!l9 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
8n49 
20 42 
20^33 
<14 24 
5 1 
4 56 
4 38 
4 8 
54i26 19 4813 27 
71 8ft21 
1920 35 
31 3nj; 5 
15 56 
29 13 
4 35 
5 33 
6 31 
7 28 
8 26 
9 23 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
21 
12—59 
27 15 
1113.58 
27 3 
12? 20 
27 38 
37 
38 
0 34 
ON 34 
1 42 
2 
3 
14 46 
26 38 
8as28 
20 21 
2A19 
14 26 
26 48 
90128 
22 31 
6=2= 3 
27 
32 
OS 20 
S 34 
1 
11 
44 
19 
41 
20 3 
413,33 
19 28 
4? 40 
19 69 
5^14 
48 
52 
First QcaRTia—Hay 23, OA. 10m. 37s. a.m. 
These pages are reproduced from the 1942 Raphael's Ephemeris with the permission 
of W. Foulshatn 85 Co. Ltd., Berks, England

--- PAGE 77 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
Full Moon—May 30, M. 28m. 53r. a.m. 
EP HEM E R IS] 
HAY, 1942. 
11 
Venus. 
Lat, 
OS 56 
1 4 
1 12 
1 19 
1 26 
Deolin. 
11 1 32 
131 38 
151 43 
171 48 
191 52 
21 
23 
25 
27 
29 
312 
IE" ' 
H 
2 S 49 
2 6 
1 21 
0 36 
ON 9 
0 56 
1 43 
2 30 
3 18 
4 5 
4 53 
5 41 
6 29 
7 17 
8 5 
8 52 
2S27 
1 44 
0 59 
0 13 
ON 33 
1 19 
2 6 
2 54 
3 41 
4 29 
IN 23 
1 41 
1 56 
2 8 
2 17 
6 53 
7 41 
8 28 
Lat. 
Mercury. 
19N51 
21 6 
22 10 
23 4 
23 48 
2 24 
2 26 
2 26 
2 21 
2 12 
2 0 
1 44 
1 25 
1 2 
) 34 
) 5 
T" 
Long. 
Declin. 
24 23 
24 49 
25 5 
25 14 
25 16 
25 11 
25 0 
24 44 
24 22 
23 57 
23 27 
20N30 
21 39 
22 38 
23 28 
24 
7 
24 37 
24 58 
25 11 
25 16 
25 14 
25 
6 
24 53 
24 34 
24 10 
23 43 
D « 
Node. 
1011128 
10 21 
10 15 
10 9 
10 
9 56 
9 50 
9 43 
9 37 
9 31 
T 
Long. 
9 24 
9 18 
9 12 
9 5 
8 59 
8 52 
Mutual Aspects. 
2. JitL. [PV-hrf#- 
3. ® QV.5*9, AV. 9<P* 
4. 51J.8 h, 6 V. 
5. ® AS. 9*h, •»!?• 
[8-1 h. XV. 
7. ® X 21. fi P21, *E_. 
9. 9 PL. 9AL. 
10. 9VJ. 
U. 9 PJ. 
13. SQL. 
14. ©Ph- 
is. ® 124- 9PV. 
17. SQ4. 
18. ® AV. 9 A L- 9nj. 
19. SAW- 
21. ® P W, S A h.<f AW.QV. 
22. ® 8 W. J PL- 
23. ® A8, 8 h. 8 A h. 
25. ® * L. 
28. 9*$. SX v. ZIDV 
29. S PL- 8 P4. 
30. 9*4 
!*4, Xh. V V. 
Lunar 
Long. Long. 
h 
Long. 
27IIJ28 
27^26 
27 25 
27 24 
27 23 29 
29 b 13 
29 17 
29 20 
29 24 
27 
29 b 5 
29 12 
29 20 
29 28 
21II23 
21 35 
21 47 
21 59 
29 35|22 11 
Long. 
3QS12 25H 4 
3 49 26 8 
4 25 
5 2 
5 39 
27 12 
28 17 
29 21 
5 
Long. 
22 b 58 
24 56 
26 52 
28 44 
0n34 A 
□ 
9 27 
j»27 
22 29 30 
21 29 34 
20 29 37 
19 29 41 
18 29 44 
29 43 
29 50 
29 58 
on o 
0 13 
or 26; 2 
1 31 4 
2 371 5 
3 421 7 
4 48,8 
21| 
41 □ 
44| 
21|* 
541 
Q 
18 29 48 
16 27 
29 51 
29 55 
29 58 
On 2 
20 27 11' 0 
21 27 
25 27 9 
26 27 
j» 27 
1 
1 
1 15 
1 23 
1 31 
0 24 
24 
24 
25 
25 
1 39 
1 46 
1 54 
2 2 
2 10 
17 II 
"29|12~ 
42|12 
55 13 
814 
21 14 
5 5310 23; A 
6 59 
8 5 
9 12 
10 18 
24 16 
34115 
47JI6 
016 
27 16 
17,26 
25 26 
48 27 
56'27 
49* 
V 
□ 
6)6 
L 
38 
23 
3 
39 
10 A 
□ 
37124 
44|24 
52 25 
025 
825 
17125 
□ 
V* 
L 
V 
L 
*1* V 
Z * 
v 
A * i 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
Last Qcastxk—May 7, Ch 12m. S5«. p.m.

--- PAGE 78 of 143 ---

74 
Tokyo,Japan 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
May 15th, 1942 
36 N 140 E 
19 
14 
21 
Qj 
11 
19 
0°^ 
24° » D © 
12 
12 
14 
14 
19 
11 
VS 
21 
14 
Most planets past MC and in decline; implies that several years cf 
increasing problems soon will begin. 
Leadership (10th) ruler in 7th reflects most attention to foreign af- 
fairs; attention to resources C4th), propaganda (3rd) and national mo- 
rale (5th). Dictatorial policies (Pluto) past zenith but continues popular 
(trine Venus).

--- PAGE 79 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
75 
Berlin, Germany 
May 15th, 1942 
52 N 13 E 
22 
3 
or 
4 
r, 
55 
B30a, 
a1 
22 
O) 
T1I3 
13 
12 
T 
13 
3* 
22 
4 
55 
3 
22 
12 
Pluto (dictatorship) on Asc (people) trine Venus at MC, marks prob- 
able peak cf success and power, but the sequence may not be grasped 
quickly due to the concentration in the 11th house. 
Neptune in 3rd (propaganda) fools the people successfully and they 
have a sense cf well-being (Node in 2nd) (money).

--- PAGE 80 of 143 ---

76 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Washington, D. C. 
May 15th, 1942 
39 N 77 W 
12 
21 
26 
T 
10 
21 
21 
33 
33 
27 
HE 
26 
Most positions below horizon but rising; conjunction cf Uranus 
Saturn; receding conjunction cf Jupiter; Node exactly square 9° Gemini. 
Mars, ruler of Asc (the people) at cusp cf 4th; a major low point. Major 
low in morale and values—a bullish index with Jupiter nearing 26° 
from Saturn.

--- PAGE 81 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
77 
London, England 
May 15th, 1942 
52 N 0 E 
24 
10 
8 
Oc 
-L 
>- 
27 
5) 
40 1 
14 
H2 
4 
oi 
14 
127 
L? 
[40 
'24 
10 
All positions at the East and rising; the heavy concentration in the 
11th house reflects concentrated efforts in a dogged and aggressive na- 
tional attitude (Mars rising in Asc (people) trine Venus near MC (love 
for leaders). Saturn Uranus conjunction reflects confidence and aid 
from 7th (foreign) and 8th (foreign resources).

--- PAGE 82 of 143 ---

78 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Millions cf dollars in manhours have been used to collect statistics, 
catalogue them and then run them through computers to try to define 
the cycles cf business and its many facets. The result is a maze cf data. 
There are the 41 to 43 month cycles, the 41/2 year, 9 year, 10 years, 18 
year or three times the 18 year for a 54 year affair. All cf them are 
averages but acceptable by mathematical standards. For example, they 
locate several cycles cf varying length which when averaged come to 
nine years although none cf the cycles were precisely nine years dura- 
tion but anywhere between perhaps 7 and 12 years long. So 9 years 
becomes a measure and the thing never meets anticipations. Back to 
collecting data they go. The real core is apparent in the cycle cf the 
Node. 
But to get back to our May 1942 Washington figure. Here we have 
a beautiful low point for conclusions on which to make some market 
estimates. First, there are major signs cf a low ebb in national confidence 
and prospects cf a revival. Prices are much depressed and what might be 
termed over-sold. But the action cf the Node is the lead-off. After the 
square from Virgo to 9° cf Gemini there is nothing until 1946 to halt 
an uptrend. Additional evidence is as follows. 
Adverse or negative aspects between Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus 
depress, in one form or another, business activity and markets. A con- 
junction involving Saturn is notably severe. Such an event occurred 
when Jupiter was conjunct Saturn early in 1941 and then the Saturn 
Uranus conjunction in 1942. Relief from these depressing factors began 
to wane (angle relationships widened) as soon as the conjunctions be- 
came completed. Late in May 1942 Jupiter was approaching 26" away 
from Saturn, a bullish index, with little cf bearish importance until 
90° difference between Jupiter and Saturn appears. It occurs May 5th, 
1946, which approximates the high in markets since 1942. From early 
1946, factors were sustaining but not bullish until 1949, etc. 
We could proceed and get into Ingress and Lunation charts, the 
part of Parallels and the details cf interpretive method. It would soon 
tangle our goal cf a perspective cf market estimates. In our "over- 
simplified" method cf cycle interpretation we keep everything as simple 
as possible and confine it to the following: 
First, scanning the ephemeris positions for the period involved to 
note the interaction cf Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and the Node. Then we 
translate the positions into Sign-House and House-Sign notes. We can 
stop there and record when interaction occurs at critical angles cf 
favorable and unfavorable aspects. (Favorable are those in the triology; 
unfavorable in the quadrature as already detailed). Then a trend pros- 
pect can be concluded. 
Like statistical cycles reported these days about business, all agree 
they exist but the timing is something else. Every week in astro-cycles 
differs from any other week in history. Each week, each month and 
each year has to be plotted by itself. One thing that pushes the statisti- 
cian up the wall is the apparent 'retrograde' pattern cf a planet; it seems 
to go backward in its course and then go forward again. Sure, Jupiter

--- PAGE 83 of 143 ---

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 
79 
makes its complete cycle in 12 years but one year it seems to bounce 
back and forth and then suddenly it goes ahead on course. In most 
cases a planet in retrograde has a reduced potency; the things it signifies 
seem to stick to routine. 
It really does not disturb the situation except we simply are unable 
to can it, or tape or simplify the rules for cold storage use. We become 
like the chap who asked a world famous physician why, after all the 
expensive tests undeniably proved that a certain patient could not sur- 
vive more than a few weeks the patient was alive and apparently vig- 
orous after ten years. The physician is supposed to have replied: "Let's 
give thanks for what we know and not be over-disturbed over what we 
do not know." 
As familiarity with these factors emerges and facility in their use 
develops the goals cf confidence and profits will follow. It may be a 
cliche but 'knowledge is power' and in terms cf markets, whether stocks, 
bonds or commodities, knowledge can be profits, security and peace cf 
mind.

--- PAGE 84 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
PLANETARY ASPECTS 
OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS 
For ease cf interpretation the solar system is charted in a 360° circle 
divided into 12 sections called houses with the noon position the Mid- 
heaven and 10th house segment, and eastern (left) horizon the as- 
cendant and the 1st house. 
The angles or aspects between planets are divided into numerous 
divisions but in general the most useful are the fourths or squares, the 
triology or trines and the fifths or quintiles. The squares in general are 
classed as bearish, unfavorable and activating. The trines are bullish, 
favorable, serene, constructive and the expansion urge. 
The fifths or quintiles are generally ignored, but in mundane work 
covering markets and economic affairs they are very significant. Trend 
reversals usually are lost in the trine and the squares but are timed by 
the fifths. At the right a 360° circle has five divisions cf 72° each. 
Visualize also 10 divisions cf 36° each and 20 divisions cf 18" each; all 
useful. 
Often, to keep data clarified, it is well to consider waxing and waning 
aspects; as the angular relationship narrows it is waxing; as it widens it 
is waning. For example a waxing trine is labeled 120° while a waning 
trine is labeled 240°. 
Keep in mind the square group cf aspects, the 221/20, the 45°, 90°, 
135°, 180°. The trines relate to 15°, 30°, 60°, 120°, etc, but note 135° 
relates to 45° also. Apparent contradiction is adjusted by noting the

--- PAGE 85 of 143 ---

PLANETARY ASPECTS OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS 81 
nature cf the planets involved; a benefic such as Jupiter and Venus 
would have an aspect cf the bullish tendencies. 
The fifths or quintiles relate to 18°, 36°, 54°, 72°, etc. But quintiles 
often are turning or resolving areas. An upward market trend marked 
by a trine aspect situation which is waning comes to a quintile aspect 
(the trine changes to quintile) and a decline appears; if followed by a 
waxing square type cf aspect declining or bearish trends are confirmed. 
The rule continues to keep it simple; in general stay with the potent 
aspects cf the three groups and avoid trying to include every minor 
aspect.

--- PAGE 86 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN 
FORMATION OF A MARKET 
FORECAST 
In the preceding chapter we attempted to work into a perspective 
cf prevailing moods, opinions and circumstances dominant in a country 
at a specific time. By expanding the data we should be able to uncover 
something tangible to form some estimates cf market trend probabilities. 
The "over"-simplified method cf planetary houses and sign-houses 
is expanded slightly by placing the positions in a locality chart or 
figure. As an initial example one day is examined for its local reaction 
in three widely separated localities, viz, Kansas City, New York City and 
the Philippines. (See the charts and comments on the next page). 
T o follow, the next example presents six charts set up for crucial 
market points from 1956 to 1970 inclusive. Notes appended each 
chart, if examined with bar charts cf the stock market, such as the 
Industrials, for these years discussed, will aid in grasping the relation- 
ships. 
Let us briefly recapitulate the step by step program cf defining astro- 
cycles and then applying them as a basis cf interpretation in estimating 
probable speculative market trends. 
(A) We become familiar with planets in their natural house- 
signs and then sign-houses (see charts pages 59 and 60). 
(B) The zodiac is divided into 12 divisions or houses and we 
become familiar with each house meaning (page 39). 
(C) Geographical locality computing is learned (the complica- 
tions cf Ingresses, lunations, etc, are avoided). 
(D) We synthesize planets in house locations and use sign ruler- 
ship (see page 59) as in Horary methods for general estimates cf a 
chart. 
(E) Then natural house signs, plus sign-house interpretation, 
are added to consideration cf rulerships and the planetary powers 
for detailed data. 
(F) Keep in mind specific angular relationships cf Jupiter, 
Saturn and Uranus are the key to stocks in the plus or minus, 
bullish or bearish, critical degrees noted in the text. Each com- 
modity has its own combination cf one or two cf the foregoing plus 
either Mercury, or Venus, or Mars. 
August 18th, 1976. The planetary positions are for Noon GMT from 
Raphael's Ephemeris for 1976. A Table cf Houses (readily available 
is published by The Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, California, 318 
pp. $4.50, for Latitude 1 to 66 degrees) gives the house cusps. From the 
Locality Maps on pages 8 and 9 and the latitude and longitude cf each 
location compute the 10th House (MC) figure according to the direc- 
tions on page 7.

--- PAGE 87 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
83 
It is suggested that a series cf dates are selected, such as major highs 
and lows cf markets, and charts like these set up. It will develop facility 
in interpretation. For stocks use New York; for wheat, corn, etc, use 
Chicago,etc. Primary attention should be directed to Uranus, Saturn and 
Jupiter. 
New York, N. Y. 
41 N 71 W 
August 18th, 1976 
15 
10 
X, 
27 
op 
411 
7,9 G 
X 
24 
24 
■ii 
Cv 
26 
21 
22 
"o cO 
<a 
hi 
27 
I 41 
"H 
10 
15 
Outlook for stock market after Reblican Nat'l Convention today. 
Uranus square Saturn (ruling the 10 and 11th) reflects doubts over 
business outlook. Saturn and Jupiter, with Jupiter now out of Gemini 
into Taurus, approach 72° which is a bearish point. 
Stocks are bearish.

--- PAGE 88 of 143 ---

84 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Kansas City, Mo. 
39 N 95 W 
August 18th, 1976 
24 
16 
11 
2.0 
19 
19 
21 
12 
04 
04 
2S 
11 
24 
Nomination of a Republican for President. Unusually successful 
money, publicity and entertainment affair for the locality (ruler cf 10th 
in 2nd and Moon 2nd ruling 5th). Two planets on Desc. and two fac- 
tions. Ruler of 11th (incumbent) trine Neptune in 9th retrograde ruling 
1st (confused public situation).

--- PAGE 89 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
85 
South Mindanao, Philippines 
7 N 124 E 
August 18th, 1976 
5C 
n 
40 
Si 
o. 
A 
7° 
6 
m. 
271 
WS0!!!. 
i70ni 
^ ■ 
w 
5 
29° 8 U 
6 
8 
127 
5 
Same time as IM. Republican Convention; Earthquake and tidal 
wave with upwards cf 20,000 homeless. 
Uranus, ruler cf 4th on Asc. square Saturn in 10th at MC which is 
square eclipse point cf April 29th, 1976 on Descendant at 9° Taurus 
which is opposition Asc. and Uranus.

--- PAGE 90 of 143 ---

86 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
Here are some examples for study. Check with a market chart of 
stocks for 75 years, for example. After the rise from a 1949 low the 
Averages reached 741 on the Industrials in 1962 and then declined to 
525. Subsequently was a rise to 1001 late in 1965 and a decline in 
1966 to 736. 
In 1956, after a steep rise from 1953, the Industrials wavered at 524. 
In 1956 and 1957 they formed a triple high; thus the wavering cyclic 
figures cf January and May 1956 which are appended. 
But the factors prevented confusion over prospects and patience was 
the only need. It is the Node and the interaction (angles) between 
Jupiter and Saturn and then Uranus with both cf them which gives us 
our basic keys. Keep it simple is the rule; rule breakers will not listen so 
they will tangle with Parallels, then add Venus, Mars and Mercury in 
the search for the absolutes which in reality do not exist.

--- PAGE 91 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
87 
New York City 
41 N 74 W 
January 15, 1956 
10 
27 j 
T 
41 
K 
24 
15 
V3 
V 
24 
V 
.Q
5 
ro 
l11! 
27 
'41 
u \ 
T15 
10 
a 
8 
15 
Here Saturn is square Jupiter—very bearish usually but here the 
square is brief and Jupiter is apparent retrograde weakening it. 
Trine to Uranus also weak as Uranus is retrograde. Then the Node is 
not at a critical point. Indication: probable peak in the offing, but not 
now.

--- PAGE 92 of 143 ---

88 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
March 6th, 1962 
10 
27 | 
T 
411 
15 
Y Vo 
24 
24 
43' "A, 
^n. 
27 
41 
Cpo 
10 
-_D 
15 
Bearish data first half cf year with Jupiter Saturn at 18" (bearish) 
Mars conjunct Jupiter opposition Uranus. Pluto square the Gemini 
point 7°—9°. Downside initial objective Node sextile 9° Gemini in late 
July and then September Jupiter Saturn cf bullish 27° point. Nothing 
significant to deter uptrend maturing until August 1965 with Node 9° 
Gemini.

--- PAGE 93 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
89 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
May 1st, 1956 
10 
271 
T 
411 
8' 
X 
24 
15 
>5 
CP 
24 
z
1 
28c 
1 
i ¥ 
TX 
27 
I 41 
Vo 
nj 
10 
a 
8 
15 
Node has reached opposition to 9° Gemini, a market top index. 
Neptune square Uranus heavy distribution; confusion over Uth and 
7th house public policies. 
Nothing bullish. Look for downside confirmation at Jupiter-Saturn 
72° point in mid-July. Probable low November 1957 when Node 
reaches 150" to 9° Gemini point and September Jupiter Saturn sextile 
confirmed.

--- PAGE 94 of 143 ---

90 
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
These examples cf market trends from late in 1968 through 1971 
indicate cyclic data was correct, and economic opinion, professional 
judgment and 'insider' confidence were all wrong. It was a classic rout 
of the conglomerate craze, the pyramiding of growth stocks, and bloody 
nosing the wonder kids and their new fresh-from-graduate-school eco- 
nomics. 
Actually it was perhaps the sadest and ruinous time for the new 
generation of 'investors' convinced in the ease cf a fast buck. In reality 
it was 1929 in collapsed situations again, but instead cf the debt cf 
margin calls which could not be met, this collapse erased the buying 
capital of thousands, but who hold their certificates today hoping the 
improbable will occur and they may "get even."

--- PAGE 95 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
91 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
Nov 24th, 1968 
15 
10 
■Qffo 
b igc 
271 
T 
411 
X1 
1 
X 
24 
24 
1 
, ^ 
2.6' 
i11! 
I27 
' 41 
TK 
10 
15 
Transport Average has a new high but the Industrials failed by 6 
points and technical weakness expands. Jupiter near conjunct Uranus 
with both opposed by Saturn, a major bearish index. 
Saturn, ruling 10th, in the Asc., with Neptune ruling 12th in 7th— 
inherent decline of national confidence over leadership in foreign poli- 
cies.

--- PAGE 96 of 143 ---

92 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION 
New York City 
41 N 71 W 
January 1st, 1970 
15 
24 
10 
12 If 
IS 
29 
* 
27 
27 
41 
41 
10 
24 
Sept 1969 rally under Jupiter-Saturn 150" now exhausted with bear- 
ish Jupiter-Saturn 180'—rejection cf foreign affairs due to Jupiter in 
7th ruling 8th and 9th, opposed by Saturn in 2nd (money) ruling 10th 
(leadership policies). 
Technical structure very weak and nothing bullish until Node reaches 
9° in late April 1970.

--- PAGE 97 of 143 ---

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 
93 
New York City 
41 N71 W 
April 28th, 1970 
10 
% 
27 i 
T 
41 
O70» 
sT1 
°A 
X 
1 
X 
24 
15 
ti 
24 
1 
li 
27 
41 
rn 
10 
15 
Node at 9° Pisces in square to Geminin 9° critical point; due is an 
important low. Industrials have declined 368 points, more than 30%, 
since late in 1968. Technical rebound would carry to March 24th, 1971 
for 162° Jupiter Saturn with Jupiter stationery. Such a pattern would 
offer a low in early November 1971 with Node at 9° Aquarius, trine to 
Gemini 9°.

--- PAGE 98 of 143 ---

Section III 
MARKET CHARTS 
A CORRELATION OF 
THE GEOMETRICAL METHOD 
A simplified scientific procedure of charting the 
prices of grain and security markets. An aid 
in forecasting and co-ordinating price trends 
with cyclical and technical factors. 
Copyright 1938. 1961, & 1978 by L. J. Jensen 
All rights reserved

--- PAGE 99 of 143 ---

FOREWORD 
The charting fundamentals and their applications presented in this 
section originally were published by the author in the hook " MARKET 
CHARTS—A Correlation cf the Geometrical Method" copyright 1934, 
and for many years out cf print. This new edition continues virtually 
unchanged except for an added number cf working examples to il- 
lustrate workaday applications. 
More than fifty years have elapsed since I first began to delve into 
possible clues to panics and booms plus the never-ending constant price 
changes in markets for stocks and commodities in particular. That 
study brought intensive research in the late 1920's and became profes- 
sional advisory services until retirement in 1971. Advertising was never 
used as the clientele developed from readers cf several national publi- 
cations to which I was a regular contributor from 1933 to 1957 when I 
assumed full time effort as analyst for a Stock Exchange organization. 
Intrusion cf the biographical comment is to underscore that fifty 
years cf market efforts which contained some forty years cf first hand 
relations with people and organizations in markets produced experi- 
ence. Again and again many cf the finest people sought me out for 
suggestions in trading and investment procedure. Too many times mar- 
ket profits and their successful interpretation cf market potentials had 
turned sour. In a few instances the lessons were accepted, studied and 
then, following the basic factors devoid cf the 'fear and greed' emotions, 
success became realized. 
Human perception is blunted when too many trees block a view cf 
the forest. Tape watching, hanging over the news ticker, or carefully 
scrutinizing orders being written by a broker interspersed with shouts: 
"the floor is selling so-and-so," "Cargill is buying wheat," or "A big extra 
is about to be announced by such-and-such company," are suicidal. All 
a successful trader needs from a broker is confirmation cf buying and 
selling orders, and refusal to let the broker say more than to give quotes 
in order to satisfy his feeling cf continuing your good-will. Yes, stated 
bluntly, be student enough to make your decisions without any com- 
ment from anyone; if in doubt do not make the commitment. 
The axiom is that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing, which 
might be paraphrased to the concept that a little market success can 
make a dunce out cf a potential investor. Often a person checks market 
fluctuations in newspapers, chart books or simply conversations with 
others. Daily ranges cf prices become potential gold mines, or a 50% 
or more gain in the price cf a stock over a period cf weeks begins to 
form the might-have-been profit. With some extra funds available some 
ideas are gathered, or a 'hot-tip' is followed. Success in the form cf a 
good profit accrues. Now is the time to jump in again, usually in a larger 
transaction. The project works nicely. But this time no grabbing a fair

--- PAGE 100 of 143 ---

98 
MARKET CHARTS 
profit; 'inside' information says the commitment will double, or triple, 
or produce even greater gain. This person often hangs on too long; 
then a reaction develops. Instead cf getting out, the promise to get out 
when a rally appears is substituted. The rally fails or falls short and 
profits are eroded until all the commitment is in loss. In a stock the 
result is a candidate for wall-paper; in a commodity the option expires 
and a sale is mandatory unless delivery is accepted which is something 
else. 
Profitable speculation and investment in securities, or, in grain fu- 
tures, is principally dependent on how comprehensive a grasp the opera- 
tor has cf the technical factors at work within the markets. All the luck 
in the world never took the place cf astute technical knowledge, plus 
the ability to apply it. Without technical knowledge, in greater or lesser 
degree, the market operator is only a gambler naively "playing the mar- 
ket"; when, in consideration of the stakes involved, a small amount of 
study would enable him to become an intelligent speculator. 
With minor exceptions, all markets operate under basic natural laws 
which govern supply and demand. A rhythmic ebb and flow is always 
perceptible in the movements cf prices. It is by gauging this motion that 
the state cf supply and demand is interpreted. 
The purpose cf this brochure is to present methods cf interpreting the 
important technical factors operating in markets. The method cf ap- 
proach and the manner of application coincides, and is a part of, those 
ancient laws which form the foundation cf modern science. They have 
not, to my knowledge, ever been applied in this somewhat unique 
manner to the charted movements cf market prices. But, although the 
application may seem new and much cf the method cf co-ordination 
original, the entire foundation is as old as mathematics and philosophy. 
At first inspection, the methods cf procedure are likely to seem diffi- 
cult to apply readily. Invariably this is the situation whenever a new 
subject is first approached. However, I am confident that with a little 
application anyone interested in markets will be gratified with the 
results encountered. 
All those who are interested in markets, whether as a vocation, or 
avocation, cannot spend long periods cf time, or invest considerable 
money, for extensive economic research and study. Therefore the eco- 
nomic specialist and the economic service organizations. An automobile 
owner need not be an expert mechanic simply because he drives his car; 
but, some knowledge cf motor mechanics, together with a road map, 
contributes to the success cf any journey. So it is with market opera- 
tions: anyone with any market interests, large or small, always finds the 
relatively small time and trouble it takes to keep several market charts 
an investment that pays large profits in both money and a better sense 
cf confidence. With greater confidence comes power and the initiative 
ability for decisive, profitable action. 
In the majority cf instances commodity commitments are shunned. 
When more money becomes available commitments in another stock or 
a variety cf stocks occurs which becomes a 'portfolio' when in reality a 
mixed bunch cf stocks are carried in Street name in an account. In

--- PAGE 101 of 143 ---

MARKET CHARTS 
99 
the course cf years some become 'winners' and others 'losers'; an avoca- 
tion develops in a daily reading cf the market page quotations. 
Any person with the intention cf finding a means cf earning several 
thousands of dollars a year as self-employed, or as an avocation, makes 
careful preparation for the choice and then the operating know-how. 
The smallest sort cf retailing operation requires many elements to be- 
come successful. The Small Business Administration, which often plans 
and assists new business formations, reports four out cf five fail in five 
years. But emotionally anyone with interest in markets and a bit cf 
money believes winning is inevitable. E" there is one salient and primary 
fact to obey constantly, without the slightest deviation, and follow- 
through with patience, it is to: 
graph the statistics cf market action according to the means cf 
estimating time and price in daily and weekly price ranges. The 
geometrical rules presented in the text cannot be compromised at 
all. And adhere strictly to the market action revealed in the graphs, 
not rumors. 
Years ago a long time client revealed he had been a floor trader on 
the Chicago Board cf Trade for many years. Forced to retire due to 
health problems he requested an address change to reach him at a small 
village near Hudson's Bay in Northern Canada. A year or so later he 
reported intensive study cf this graph method had intrigued him that he 
was experimenting with 5 M bushels, mailing orders to Chicago by 
regular mail, which sometimes took ten days for delivery. He said he 
felt he was groping in the dark but handled it by stop-loss orders selected 
from trend channels cf the charts from the daily ranges picked up from 
several radio stations with market news broadcasts. It was a few years 
later he called on me to relate his losses, using the stops religiously, had 
been minimal, while some very handsome profits had been realized by 
acting on the potential swings and timing. This example leads me to 
suggest, as I have done many times: 
Invest your time in serious study and see you grasp how the appli- 
cation cf mathematical elements exhibits market activity. Only 
then venture commitments and your capital, based only on con- 
clusions drawn from your judgment. 
You may feel these comments are rather presumptuous and naive 
enough to imply you do not know better. Frankly, more than forty 
years cf experience have proven such reactions are a mistake. The more 
capital you may venture the greater the hazard if you cast them aside 
and ignore them. 
Fike a nautical chart aids the navigators at sea to maintain objectives 
and positions, market charts are cf tremendous value in all market 
transactions. Market charts are a graphic statistical view cf price move- 
ments in the market, sometimes from hour to hour, sometimes from 
day to day, week to week, month to month, and even a view cf year to 
year.

--- PAGE 102 of 143 ---

100 
MARKET CHARTS 
The problem of market activity is, in the final practical analysis, that 
cf prices. T o profit we must buy lower than we sell. It is trite to point 
out that a $100 stock is a bargain if it is about to move higher, while a 
$2 stock is expensive if it is about to go down. But, most people realize 
the greatest urge to buy just before a high is reached. The reason for 
this psychology is obvious. But its basis lies in the lack cf a grasp of 
much of the technical perspective of the market itself. 
So much material has been published on the importance cf the eco- 
nomic market charts during the last several years that market students 
no longer view charts lightly. Yet, cf all the methods I have examined 
and used the geometrical approach is the only form that enables the 
student to co-ordinate the fundamental laws of supply and demand, the 
the element of time, the problem cf resistance and objective and the 
basis of price, with the astro-economic cyclical factors. 
I am particularly indebted to my partner, Mr George E. Liggett, for 
the basic practical application of the geometrical method to the problem 
cf market trends. His first application cf phases of the method was used 
in grain markets over a decade ago. These basic ideas were later 
amplified and expanded by our associate, Mr Virgil Moore, now de- 
ceased. Best known as The Moon Man in the grain markets, Virgil 
Moore's phenomenal forecasts will be long remembered. His interpreta- 
tion cf markets was based almost entirely on the various phases cf the 
geometrical method cf charting. 
The material which follows warrants careful study. Each phase of the 
discussion is part cf an ultimate whole. It is suggested;—that the 
material is first read through carefully, without any attempt to apply the 
principles laid down. Then a general perspective will be attained, which, 
on second reading, will afford a quicker grasp of every step. Then apply 
the method to a chart of current interest. With practice will come 
facility, and as facility develops the many combinations and possibilities 
of this method will be found.

--- PAGE 103 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
GEOMETRICAL FUNDAMENTALS 
The increasing use of charts, as a concise visual record of the fluctu- 
ations of grain and security market prices, indicates their decided value 
in speculative and investment operations. Particularly since the crash in 
1929, a comprehensive grasp cf the technical factors operating within 
markets is recognized to be of importance, and in many ways supersede 
such items as company earnings, overhead, fixed charges, credit and 
indebtedness. Statistical items bear on problems cf market prices, but 
markets boom and crash before such news is available. Market charts 
usually signal important changes. They are keys to the factors of supply 
and demand which operate in every market. Market technicalities, as 
registered on charts, take first place in all forms of market interpretation. 
Over recent years, a great deal of material has been published on 
methods of charting market statistics. Much of the material is of great 
value; but, principally to illustrate the record cf the past or to estimate 
current technical conditions. Very little of the material is of the slightest 
use in forecasting. But, as the means cf "half a loaf" of observational 
material is better than none, so even a meager chart is better than none. 
The idea that all markets operate according to the natural laws of 
supply and demand, in a rhythmic ebb and flow of price changes, is 
rather difficult to grasp at first glance. It is simpler to take the view 
that all prices are either "put up" or "pushed down" by several, or one, 
"insiders." But, like most half truths, such a premise simply distorts a 
true grasp cf markets. Prices are and have been "rigged," but no 
"rigger" or pool met success bucking the general trend. Markets move 
in waves, ofttimes against the wishes of the majority or in spite cf every 
human effort to reverse the trend. The explanation cf this condition 
lies in those natural laws which are related, and are a part of, the 
cyclical movements cf mass psychology. 
It is in an examination of these natural cycles that both individual 
investors and speculators, and the managers of large funds can locate 
the key to the many inexplicable market trends. Anything that is as 
prosaic and practical as markets might appear to have little in common 
with ancient philosophy, but market trends are simply an exact reflection 
of the total hopes, fears and desires cf great masses of people. Markets 
are a part of living and so is philosophy. 
Lack of space prevents an examination cf the philosophical and psy- 
chological backgrounds of markets. It is necessary, however, so as to 
clarify phases of the geometrical method of charting, to refer to some 
of the fundamental data. 
Practically all modern "discoveries" are new applications, and new 
variations, of things which have gone before. The extraordinary de- 
velopments in modern atomic and electronic science were bequeathed 
to us from ancient times. The observations of Thales of Miletus in

--- PAGE 104 of 143 ---

102 
MARKET CHARTS 
about 600 B.C., the work cf Democritus in Ancient Greece, and Leucretius 
in Ancient Rome, forms much basis for mathematical science in modern 
times. Euclid, the father of geometry, and Pythagoras, who is credited 
with raising mathematics to a science, presented tenets and observations 
which have never been refuted down through centuries cf research and 
observation. Modern physics continues to view the principles of 
Democritus as basic. As Tyndall quotes them, they are the foundation 
cf modern scientific thought. One principle is that "nothing happens by 
chance. Every occurrence has its cause from which it follows by neces- 
sity. " 
Kepler's doctrine cf the concurrence cf parallels at a single point at 
infinity, and his principle cf continuity in relation to the infinitely great, 
relates to all geometrical figures. This thesis, as applied to natural law, 
was amplified by Descartes and Newton. There is no reason why charts 
cf market statistics, if drawn according to geometrical design, cannot 
be another application cf these premises. 
A Pythagorean proposition is that all things consist cf three—the 
trinity cf proportions, or the arithmetical, geometrical and the harmoni- 
cal. In market terms this is a clue to the relationship which exists be- 
tween the angle cf lift in charted prices; the prices, and the extent, or 
time cf market activity in days, weeks, months, etc. 
Pythagoras taught further that there is a numerical relation in all 
phenomena; the harmonic intervals cf numbers with sounds; the rela- 
tionship that the square cf the hypotenuse, in a right handed triangle, 
is equal to the sum cf the squares on the other two sides; and more im- 
portant, that angles cf a sphere have specifically corresponding numbers, 
which are sensitive to those angles in space, infinity and time. The lift 
of charted prices does coincide with numbers at specific points in space, 
corresponding to price and time. In these observations is the entire basis 
of geometrical charts.

--- PAGE 105 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWO 
FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING 
Most cf the various methods cf charting market prices ignore the 
necessity for a constant balanced relationship between the elements cf 
time and price. Usually one unit cf graph paper represents one unit of 
time, such as a day or week, while two, five, or any convenient number 
of units is taken to represent one cent or one dollar. The observation 
seems to be that any unit relationship is satisfactory just as long as it is 
carried throughout the chart. This is not the case. 
In geometrical charting the primary rule is; that there must be an 
identical unit to represent both time and price. Ancient geometry was 
principally concerned with geocentric and astronomic observation. It 
discovered that all natural phenomena is, in some way, concerned with 
circles, or cycles; such as the diurnal movement cf the Earth on the axis, 
the 28 day cycle of the Moon around the Earth, and the cycles cf the 
planets around the Sun. The circle, or cycle, was the basis cf geometry; 
and, lines emanating from the axis of a circle, and the relationships cf 
these lines on the circumference of a circle, are the first tools cf geometry. 
They prove balance. 
The 360° of a complete circle contain several cardinal, and many 
lesser, points. The major cardinal points are those which mark the four 
major squares of every circle, and those which mark the three major 
triangles cf every circle. Fractional harmonics form the lesser. 
A perfect cross of two lines, drawn through the center of a circle indi- 
cates the four cardinal points on the circumference; and, coincides with 
90° 
ISO0   o° 
27O0

--- PAGE 106 of 143 ---

104 
MARKET CHARTS 
the four seasons cf the year. A cross divides a circle into four equal 
parts, each part 90° or one half cf 180" and a quarter cf 360". This 90° 
angle is the "square" unit, or the symbol cf the meeting cf force and re- 
sistance. T wo 90° angles are the equal cf 180°, or, the symbol cf op- 
position and alternative. The point cf 0° is always the beginning or 
place cf origin, and the positive pole, while 180° is the negative pole; one 
is Self and the other Not-Self, the start and the finish, the top and the 
bottom. All degrees which divide 90 equally are related to "resistance." 
There is another set cf major critical points within a circle; from the 
major triangles. Where the first division was one cf quarters or 90" 
angles, the second division is cf 120" angles or thirds. These two di- 
visions form the basis cf all angles and division, cf not only circles, but of 
120 
240° 
any unit, viz, %, Vsi ViQt etc are all harmonical divisions cf 90°, 
while %, %, %. etc, are the harmonical divisions cf 120". The 120° 
angles, and their harmonical divisions, relate to co-ordination, harmony 
and balance. They are not only unifying but bring adjustment which 
relates to the ideal. So in zodiacal sign relationships the major triangles, 
or trines, tie earth to earth, air to air, fire to fire and water to water. In 
market charts, these units mark areas cf market adjustment or areas and 
periods cf consolidation in time and price. 
The co-ordination cf nature with these basic angles shows up in a 
variety cf ways. Under microscopic examination molecules cf copper, 
iron and quartz follow the major angles. Snowflakes,in myriads cf major 
angle forms, illustrate the major angles. One twelfth cf a year is one 
month; one twenty fourth cf a day is one hour; one hour-sixty minutes; 
all are divisions cf the trine, or 120" angle. Similar connection with the 
square or 90° angle can be noted. As Laotze said, everything exists for a

--- PAGE 107 of 143 ---

FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING 
105 
purpose, and the virtue cf everything is in its use; which can include 
geometry and market charts. 
The sketch below illustrates the necessity for a market chart unit 
cf time--days, months, etc—always being equal to the unit cf price— 
one dollar or one cent. There is balance when A-B is equal to C-D. F 
A-B is one unit cf price then G D must be one unit of time. There is an 
immediate unbalance if A-B is one unit and C-D is three, or five, or ten 
units of measure. Most important rule cf geometrical charting — that the 
arithmetical unit cf measuring time and price shall always be identical. 
Lack cf space makes it impossible to offer illustrations why it is also 
necessary to show every unit of calendar time on all charts, instead cf 
following the popular practice cf simply indicating market days. Usually 
chartists provide no space for Sundays and those intervals when the 
markets are closed. Yet the student cf economic cycles realizes that Sun- 
days and holidays may halt the completion cf such economic transac- 
tions as market turnover, but they do not halt a cycle of time. The forces 
which result in market statistics are operative 7 days a week and 24 
hours a day. Forces behind the movement cf money are not halted be- 
cause most of the banks cf the country are closed a large part of each 
24 hours. So it is with market forces, they operate constantly. So charts 
must show calendar time, not market time. 
In preparing charts it does not matter what unit cf measure may be 
selected, just as long as it is followed throughout the chart. Use any type 
cf paper from the 20 by 20 squares to the inch to the 1 by 1 square to the 
inch. The only point is to maintain a balance cf units. 
For general purposes the readily available graph paper cf 8 by 8 
squares to the inch is convenient to handle for grain futures, stocks and

--- PAGE 108 of 143 ---

105 
MARKET CHARTS 
Averages. In grain charts use one unit to indicate one cent, and one 
equal unit to indicate time—which will be a day, a week, month, or year, 
depending on the type of chart. On the 8 by 8 paper Va inch will present 
one cent on the vertical scale, and Vs inch will mark a unit cf time cf the 
horizontal scale. 
In security price charts Va inch should represent one dollar on the 
vertical scale, and Vs inch represent one unit cf time on the horizontal 
scale. 
It is profitable to carry charts on the daily, weekly, monthly 85 yearly 
range cf prices cf every stock or grain option in which there is any in- 
terest. For most purposes, however, the charts can be limited to one 
daily and one weekly. Do not load up with a great number cf charts. 
One hour cf interpretation is better than ten hours cf marking up high, 
low and close statistics. Enter the calendar days—or weeks—across the 
top from left to right, and the price range in the left hand margin from 
bottom to top. Begin all charts from the last major high or low. A space 
to provide for volume should be provided along the bottom cf each chart.

--- PAGE 109 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
After a set of daily and weekly charts has been laid out, with a range 
started from either the last major high or major low, the next step is to 
enter the major angles. We want to estimate all the probable elements 
of the present and future price range, resistances, and price and time ob- 
jectives. For illustrative purposes let us begin at the last major low. This 
low is, geometrically, the axis or center cf a circle. However, price ac- 
tivity on a chart moves upward and to the right cf the axis, so we can 
only use 90° or one quarter cf the circle, illustrated in the sketch below. 
From point A a line is drawn to equal and parallel F-B, and then the 
angle AEB is entered so as to duplicate AFB, and form the base figure 
for our chart form. The extension on CD is the result. Literally, C is the 
same as F—the axis cf the circle and the point cf the major chart low 
(when inverted, it is the major high). 
According to the Pythagorean observation the degree units (angles) 
cf a circle have numerical co-ordinates which are harmonical. In this 
instance the 90° from A to B represents 90 units cf measure from A to 
F, F to B, B to E, etc. And it follows that the extended square on base 
line C-D must also be measured by 90 units on each cf its sides. This 
square of 90 is our base unit in all market charts, except with minor ex- 
ceptions in the daily. 
On the opposite page are two sketches which illustrate the important 
angles cf a circle and also the 90° segment. One indicates the manner in

--- PAGE 110 of 143 ---

108 
MARKET CHARTS 
which the harmonics cf 90° form four perfect squares in every circle. 
The other illustrates how four triangles form on the major harmonics of 
120°. From the axis these points form angles cf 90, 45, 22 Va, HVi, 671/2, 
etc in the squares, and 75, 60, 30, 15, 45, 90, etc in the trines. Note that 
90 and 45 appear in both groups, indicating they are doubly strong. 
Keep the entire gamut of these critical degree points of all the groups 
in mind, not only when computing time by days, or weeks, but in com- 
puting price and resistance. Think in numbers, rather than angles. 
The points which are harmonical with the square of 90 signal re- 
sistance, and points cf trend reversal, as their connecting lines extend to 
112/,° 
6T/,o 
157/, 
ISO1 
202'/, 
135° 
22/, 
315 
225 
337/,° 
247/,° 
292/,° 
270° 
axial highs or lows. In time measure all harmonical points cf 90, or from 
0 to 360, represent days, weeks or months cf resistance, from a major 
high or low. This coincides with the 88, 44 and 22 day cycles cf Mercury, 
viz, 90, 45 and 22 Vz, etc. 
In other words, in measuring time count from a major hi or low in 
calendar days, weeks or months for critical areas in time. 
The points harmonical with the trines also mark important areas in 
time and price, but the levels they indicate are related to that type of 
market action that accompanies periods cf adjustment or consolidation. 
The critical points cf the two groups--square and trine--operate from 
0, and also from any beginning, viz, a major low at 11 would locate the 
45 point at 56 (11 plus 45) and not 45. 
The trine points tie up in the approximate 365 day cycle of the Sun 
which marks 1 year. 
The application of these critical points is now used in entering the

--- PAGE 111 of 143 ---

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
109 
lines from axial tops and bottoms in the square cf 90. (See Plate 1 on 
the opposite page). The sensitive degree points are tabulated on the 
top and side margin of the graph. The lines from point X, the axial 
center, and also our theoretical low point, form angles which are not 
measured on the circumference 0—0, but on the sides 0-90, and 90-0. 
This is our foundation, a complete unit which is to be applied to every 
low, and inverted, to every high on our charts. 
The strongest angle is 90°, coinciding with the vertical line cf X to the 
top 0. The next strongest is the 45° angle, formed from the lower 0 to 
90, or the line of 90. Points E and E are also 45, and are points cf the 
ISO 
ISO' 
120° 
oO 
30 
330 
2IO 
240 
300 
270° 
square within the square. As all the lines from the axis X are followed 
note how cross lines coincide with critical degree points. X-D is the 30 
point line (measured across the top). On the circumference 0-0 is an 
angle of 7DA0. Note the minor resistance at 33% points, and the major 
resistance at 67%, on the graph. In time (from left to right) these points 
are 111/4 days or weeks, and 22 Vi, So it can be readily observed that the 
Pythagorean postulate proves out; that there is a harmonical relation- 
ship between angles and numbers, which, in terms of market charts, ties 
up the "lift" of the price structure with time and resistance. 
In order to avoid the inconvenient and cumbersome necessity cf enter- 
ing the full square of 90 at every important top and bottom that ma- 
terializes on our charts, a precision detail colluloid protractor is used and 
the critical points translated into angles by means of those tables which 
are entered at the bottom of Plate 1. Most drawing and draftsmen sup- 
ply dealers stock them.

--- PAGE 112 of 143 ---

110 
MARKET CHARTS 
30 40 SO 60 70 SO 90 
A 7 
BO 
/ 
60 
30 
lO 
X-A 5% spaces 
X-B 
X-C 22% 
X-D30 
X- E45 
X- F60 
X- G671/2 
861/4° 
X-A 5 % spaces 
821/2° 
X-BllVi " 
75" 
X-C221/2 " 
711/4° 
X-D30 
63%° 
X-E45 
561/4° 
X - F60 
541/2° 
X-G 67% " 
Right Margin Upward 
3%° 
71/2° 
15° 
183/4° 
261/4° 
33%° 
371/2° 
Another method, which is even simpler after a little practice, is to use 
the scale cf measurement below. Count from the axis X upward, or to 
the right, as the case may be. 
Vertical Scale (Right Margin) 
5% spaces —16 over 1 up 
Horizontal Scale (Top Margin) 
111/4 
' —16 
2 
15 
1 —12 
2 
221/2 
' —16 
4 
30 
' —12 
4 
45 
' — 8 
4 
60 
' —12 
8 
671/2 
' —16 
1 2 
5% spaces — lover 16 
111/4 " 
— 2 
16 
15 
— 2 
12 
221/2 " 
— 4 
16 
30 
— 4 
12 
45 
— 4 
8 
60 
— 8 
12 
671/2 " 
—12 ' 
16

--- PAGE 113 of 143 ---

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
111 
IO 20 30 40 SO 6O 70 8O 
vO 
PLATE 3 
85 
U.S. STEEL WEEKLY 
JULY 1932 to MARCH 1934 
SO 
75 
70 
65 
eo 
IO 
55 
50 
5—7 2 45 
40 
35 
30 
it 
25 
20 
w 
10 
A - July '32 low 4 - Horizontal from low C 
B-Sept'32 high 5-Horizontal fromhighD 
C-Feb'33 1ow 6 —71%°30spaces (7) 
D-July'33 high 7-90"onC 
E-Oct '33 low 8-45° on A 
1 - Axis '32 low 9 - 45 ° on C 
2 - 71 Vi0 30 spaces 10 - 183/40 30 spaces (B) 
3 -Horizontal from top B 11 - 183/40 30 spaces (C) 
12 - 633/40 - 45 spaces (C) 
We can now enter the important lines on the weekly charts. For il- 
lustration note the weekly range chart cf U. S. Steel Common on the 
opposite page (Plate 3). The first procedure was to align the axis, cf the 
square of 90, to the low point of July 1932 at A As soon as this is done 
the price is tabulated in the left hand margin, and the major lines of 90, 
or 45" angles, are entered at 0, through the exact center at 1, and from 
A to 90. Then the top and side points cf 30 and 45 are entered. For 
simplification all but the top 30 is deleted on this Plate 3. These lines 
illustrated that the major resistances in price were, on the upside, where 
the major lines cross at 1, or $64 in price and 45 weeks in time, and, on 
line 2 at 51 T/i (the top scale of 30 points added to the low cf 21 Vi at A).

--- PAGE 114 of 143 ---

112 
MARKET CHARTS 
As the weekly range cf prices rose along this line no other lines were 
necessary until the September 1932 top at B. 
As soon as the top was made the horizontal top line at 3 is entered. 
Then the line 10 through B and 1 was drawn. Then a line parallel to 2 is 
entered through 1, and the 45° angle down from B. Just as long as a 
weekly or monthly range stays above the line cf 90 it is bullish; and, 
conversely, as long as the range travels under the line of downward 90 it 
is bearish. The line cf 90 from B was not penetrated until the point of 
convergence cf vertical 7 and parallel 6 was reached at C. At C then, a 
new base line 4 was drawn; line 11 is entered parallel to line 10;and, the 
line cf 90 at 9 entered. This signalled that the weekly range holding 
above line 11 was bullish 8s if it held above the 90 line 9 the objective 
was; first, the high 10 line, and, a price within "orb" cf point 1 or $64. 
The high materialized at the high line point D, just under $68, in July 
1933. Note; —line 12, drawn from C through D, strikes at 76 on the top 
margin and scale, 44 points added to the February 1933 low at point C 
are 67Vi and the July 1933 high on U.S. Steel. 
Study Plate 3 carefully; and, with the material already discussed, set 
up charts for ranges over the past. Facility in locating the manner in 
which resistance points and objectives can be computed, in advance, will 
soon develop. The more points cf crossing at one week, or at one price, 
the more important is that point. Always be generous with lines. Have 
more than you need, rather than too few. Always carry all the major 
lines from every important top and bottom. Begin with the line cf 90, 
or 45°, and when a line is entered above this major line always enter a 
line below, at the same degree point. 
A great number cf different combinations cf angles and lines can be 
applied to every chart. I" the fundamentals already discussed have been 
thoroughly grasped each combination can be worked out to a logical 
conclusion. 
Study the manner in which duplications recur on all charts, and how 
when one square cf 90 is completed the succeeding square will develop 
duplications, not in exact prices but in geometrical form and reflected by 
the price ranges. Note that parallelograms and forms cf squares and 
rectangles prove out, as complete moves cf prices occur. A major ob- 
jective can be anticipated by drawing lines from double and triple tops 
and bottoms. When making such extensions run the 90 point line up- 
ward from the first bottom, then the 45 top point line on the second bot- 
tom, and if there is a third bottom, enter the 22% point (top) from it. 
Where these lines converge will mark a major point cf resistance in time 
and price. Conversely, from tops, the lines go down. 
Keep in mind that the sensitive angles coincide with critical points cf 
prices. For instance, if a stock makes a major low cf ten dollars per share 
you can immediately outline its major and minor resistance points in 
days, weeks and months, and in price. Simply take the major degrees 
such as 15,30,45, 90,105,135, etc, and add to the major low; viz, 10 
plus 15 equals 25,45 and 10 equals 55, etc. Count the days and weeks 
in the same manner.

--- PAGE 115 of 143 ---

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 
113 
In entering lines and angles on the charts always strive for geometrical 
balance. When the 90 point line is drawn from a low, balance it with a 
90 point line from a top and note where they cross. If a 90 point line, 
or any other, is drawn from a bottom, parallel it by the same point line 
UPWARD from the preceding top. The three sides cf a parallelogram— 
the two parallels for two sides and a line extending from the top to the 
bottom—give clues to when and where a move in prices will be com- 
pleted. In the same manner, watch for duplications in time and price in 
the ends cf the parallelogram. This "boxing" cf the price range is very 
effective to locate when a move is completed, and to aid in finding ob- 
jectives and price levels. They are most effective on the weekly charts, 
but should be looked for in the daily charts also. 
Above all, recognize the necessity for flexibility in entering lines. Al- 
ways be ready to apply variations cf the basic rules.

--- PAGE 116 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
THE DAILY CHART 
Where the weekly, monthly and yearly charts cf market prices—all 
set up according to the illustration used for the weekly chart cf U. S. 
Steel, in the preceding chapter — are the foundations for interpretation 
cf the major trends, probable tops and bottoms, plus points where turns 
are probable, the daily chart gives a closer and more enlarged view of the 
minor trend. In practice one is a supplement to the other; the weekly 
and monthly charts indicating the long trend perspective, and the daily 
charts the minor trends. 
Plate 2 shows the daily range cf the Dow Jones Industrials and the 
Dow Jones Rails from January 1st, 1933 to September 29th, 1933. A 
supplementary aid—a one point. Point and Figure chart cf the Indus- 
trials—is also included. 
Note that the rule cf one day for one dollar is followed. Also, every 
calendar day occupies one unit — Sundays, holidays and, periods of 
closed markets, are all shown. The square cf 90 and the line cf 90 are 
not used, except in the minor trends. In the daily charts we confine our- 
selves to actual trend lines on the highs and lows. 
The tops A and B are the horizontal base lines. Until those lines were 
broken at C the market was not in a bullish trend; as, even though 
strong implications had developed on the weekly and monthly charts, 
the confirmation on the daily chart was not complete. Then when A and 
B were penetrated, base lines were entered across preceding lows shown 
at 1 and 2. Note how these bottom or low lines held through the re- 
peated attacks in prices at 3, 4, 5, and 6 on both Averages, indicating 
that the trend was fundamentally bullish up until the apex cf the major 
triangulation, D-E-3, was broken out cf at E. 
On the intermediate trend cf the Industrials, from C, through D, count 
the days in terms cf our observations cf critical points, viz, S3A, 7i/2i 
11Y4, 15, etc. As soon as the 90 point and day passed, resistance became 
increasingly heavy. On the major point cf 105, or day, an important high 
was made. Then go back and count the days from the time the resistance 
across A and B was broken at C, and apply the same critical points. The 
top in prices occurred on the 90th day following the breakout at C. 
Apply this principle throughout all types cf charts. 
Always keep the geometrical fundamental cf balance, plus the har- 
monical relationship between degrees, points, days, months, and weeks, 
in the forefront cf attention. At the same time be prepared to allow an 
"orb" cf "aspect." That is, allow for discrepancies in all computations up 
to about 2%%. An objective cf 90 days or 90 dollars can carry a range 
cf points 2 Vi % higher or 2 Vi % lower. 2 Vi % of 90 is 21/4, so the range 
would be from 87% days, weeks, points or dollars, to 92 Vi days, weeks, 
points or dollars. Apply this general percentage "orb" to all computed 
objectives and resistance points.

--- PAGE 117 of 143 ---

CO 
CO 
O 
CL 
o 
<N 
Q. 
2 uj 
CO 
1=1 Z 
< 
0 
J 
jC~- 
:k I 
CO 
o

--- PAGE 118 of 143 ---

116 
MARKET CHARTS 
In the penetration cf trend lines or previous highs and previous lows 
on the daily charts, the percentage rule can generally be ignored for the 
"one point" rule. This rule applies to all chart points not computed on 
the degree points cf the major angles, such as trend line points, highs and 
lows, the applications cf the Dow Theory, and in interpretation by the 
Point and Figure method. The rule is, allow a one full point penetra- 
tion before accepting the implication as definite. 
The volume cf transactions is important. It should be charted on all 
stock charts and on the charts of the Averages, and if possible, on grain 
charts. In Plate 2 the volume cf transactions is entered on the bottom of 
the chart, with daily vertical lines indicating the number cf transactions 
in millions of shares. Follow through this chart cf the volume to see how 
the volume increased as the trend line on the lower side cf the channel 
was broken near D. As point 3 was approached, volume decreased; the 
pressure cf liquidation was passing, with prices preparing for a recovery. 
But as volume did not materially increase on the upside movement 
along the succeeding higher bottoms at 4, 5, and 6, the bullish trend was 
not convincing. 
Note that all minor tops and bottoms carry an upward or downward 
line of 90, or 45° angle line. As long as the minor trend holds above this 
line the minor trend continues unchanged. When this angle is broken a 
reversal or consolidation occurred. Use cf this angle on every daily chart 
is of tremendous value in short term trading operations. But remember, 
like the major trend lines across tops and bottoms, it only is effective on 
charts which follow the arithmetical balance cf one unit for time and one 
unit for price; and, that every calendar day is provided for and shown 
on the chart. 
As with the weekly charts, experiment and test charts cf past action 
with these methods.

--- PAGE 119 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FIVE 
SUPPLEMENTARY HELPS 
If every investor and trader will keep an up to date and carefully 
drawn set cf charts, for every grain option and stock in which he is in- 
terested, he will be amply repaid in greater profits, plus a new basis cf 
confidence. Such charts, used in conjunction with a subscription to a 
technical and advisory service, will enable him to not only maintain a 
market perspective, but help him to crystallize his observations into 
profitable action. The better a trader understands his reasons for making 
commitments, the greater are his chances to attain profitable results. 
As a minimum, use a weekly and a daily chart for every grain option, 
and stock, in which you are interested. Then, if possible, supplement the 
individual charts with charts cf the Rails and the Industrials in stocks; 
and in grains, carry a corn option if you are trading in wheat, or wheat if 
you are interested in corn. The Dow Theory where the primary and 
intermediate trends are involved, is very useful in not only stocks, but in 
grains. In stocks, use the daily Industrial Averages, and the daily Rail 
Averages as compiled by Dow, Jones and Company. In grain, use the 
option cf wheat to replace the Industrials, and the option cf corn to re- 
place the Rails. Always use options which run out in the same month— 
like September wheat and September corn. The Chicago Board cf Trade 
options work quite effectively in this form. 
The Dow Theory is a method cf market interpretation developed by 
the late Charles H. Dow cf the Wall Street Journal. It was later ampli- 
fied by William P. Hamilton. In recent years there has been a pro- 
nounced tendency to read certain implications into the theory which it 
was never designed to convey. Basically, the Dow Theory is a very use- 
ful method cf interpreting the intermediate and primary trends only. 
Its use in minor trends is cf little value. For everything that may be im- 
plied under the Dow Theory study the book by Robert Rhea, entitled 
'The Dow Theory." 
One cf the oldest professional forms cf charting market prices is the 
Point and Figure Method. It is an excellent supplement to the geo- 
metrical charts, when the chartist wants a separate check on the im- 
portant levels of accumulation and distribution, resistance points and the 
main trend. The method pays no attention to calendar or market time; 
it is not concerned with the volume cf transactions. Its entire purpose is 
to follow the price movement. The upper left hand portion cf the chart 
comprising Plate 2 illustrates a one point chart which was compiled by 
the Point and Figure Method. It will be noted that units cf price less 
than one, such as the fractions cf Vs and T4, are ignored. In compiling 
these charts the general rule is that full point changes are entered on the 
chart by x marks. Starting on a day a stock moves between 1 IVi and 
12%, the figure to be entered is an x at 12—the only full figure in that 
range. Then, if the stock advanced through 13, into 14, an x is entered

--- PAGE 120 of 143 ---

118 
MARKET CHARTS 
in the space above the x at 12. If, however, the stock price churns be- 
tween 12 Vz and 13%, and then breaks through the full figure 13, move 
to the next vertical column cf squares to the right and enter x at 13. The 
data for these changes may be taken from quotations in newspaper fi- 
nancial pages, or from the daily range charts; but the only satisfactory 
source, so as to follow all fluctuations, is to take the data directly from 
the tape. 
Refinements cf this method are used in a great many ways. There are 
one point charts, half point, quarter point, three point and the five point. 
All forms have their own particular use and contribute to market in- 
terpretation as a whole, considerable data on this method is available. 
Various mathematical forms have been developed to produce auto- 
matic "buy" and "sell" signals. The most noteworthy cf these are labeled 
"running average" devices. These may consist cf two lines running on an 
arithmetical chart. As long as the same trend continues these lines hold a 
parallel position to each other. At a major turning point the one line 
will cross the other. A popular method cf computing such a pair cf lines 
is to use the daily close for one line and the average cf the closes cf the 
preceding week for the other line. Sometimes the average cf the pre- 
ceding highs, or lows, are run on one cf the lines, or a third, and some- 
times even a fourth line is added, each line carrying various combina- 
tions cf figures. 
But, to supplement the geometrical method cf charting there is one 
basic method which overshadows all others in usefulness. It lies in a 
close study cf the tape itself. On the tape is recorded every transaction 
in the market, with every fluctuation in price, every item cf volume; or, 
in brief, a completely detailed moving picture cf each stock and the 
market as a whole. Watching every movement cf price and volume on 
the tape, without retaining the perspective cf trends revealed in the 
charts, is a danger few observers can guard against.

--- PAGE 121 of 143 ---

[OCR] Section IV

--- PAGE 122 of 143 ---

CHAPTER ONE 
FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER 
The purpose is to try to define or at least make an estimate cf the 
probable future trend of speculative markets, notably stocks and com- 
modities. Is the major or long term trend upward or down? It was up- 
ward in stock market averages from 1932 to 1965, approximately 33 
years, but something else in terms cf individual stocks then and since. 
And this basic upward trend actually was a series cf intermediate up- 
ward and intermediate trends constantly making marks on affairs. For 
example, from 1932 to 1937 was an intermediate upward trend; from 
1937 to 1942 was an intermediate downward trend. And within all in- 
termediate trends, whether upward or down, are constant minor trends. 
One cf the initial steps in developing estimates cf trend prospects is to 
define precisely what these trends may be. 
It is amazing the ignorance which prevails on these elementary fac- 
tors. Most brokerage salesmen, and there are exceptions, seem bred to 
markets pointing upward in their incessant search for orders to buy 
something. Declines are admitted but always as temporary setbacks. 
In turn, most cf their customers think always somewhere the trend will 
be upward. An old wheeze is that security prices always eventually go 
higher and compare the Dow-Jones Averages cf 1897 with those of 
recent years. One quick answer is that Pennsylvania Railroad in the 
days cf World War I was the final word as a deluxe, income paying blue 
chip cf blue chips. To soften what may seem to be a put-down note that 
Haloid, the poor and struggling cousin cf Rochester photo industry 
moguls for many years now has grown to some stature as Xerox. The 
trend must be defined by the position cf the Averages and the issues 
being scrutinzed as possible candidates for purchase or sale. 
An intermediate trend usually has five phases, three in its direction 
and two corrective minor trends. Thus, the intermediate upward trend 
usually has a relatively small initial upward phase such as July to Sep- 
tember 1932 on the Industrials, a minor downtrend cf varying length 
such as September 1932 to February 1933. The second upswing minor 
trend follows as from March to July 1933. The second setback carried 
to near the end cf 1934 from which the third upswing and blow-off phase 
made a peak in early 1937. It is almost axiomatic that the third phase cf 
an intermediate uptrend is the largest and longest because by that time 
people feel the future profit prospects are both unlimited and assured. 
As one technician often said when people demand stocks in a third up- 
ward phase he always was happy to please them and sell out all the 
stocks he owned. 
The years 1973 and 1974 marked the most devastating market losses 
than any two year interval since the early 1930's. Vicious declines oc- 
curred in 1966 and 1969 in terms cf the popular Averages but com- 
parable rebounds followed rather quickly to restore preceding values

--- PAGE 123 of 143 ---

122 
SECTION IV 
and the Over-The-Counter market did not collapse. In our annual trend 
projection estimates issued and copyright in December annually for the 
forthcoming year cyclic estimates again proved themselves. For ex- 
ample, 1974, at the end of 1973, was a chaotic prospect after February 
was out of the way, as Jupiter would begin to move toward a square of 
Saturn. And in April the weak trine cf retrograde Uranus to Saturn 
would begin to shift to a square. These are bearish elements intensified 
by the Node moving through Sagittarius all year, the opposition area to 
our Gemini critical point. Forecast projection; firming early in the year, 
late May peak, September low. 
One cf our market turning points, in the relation cf Jupiter and Saturn 
at 126°, converged in early February in a weak manner, because Saturn 
was retrograde at the time; again in late September when Saturn was 
direct but Jupiter was retrograde; and again in December. At the latter, 
Jupiter was direct but Saturn again was retrograde. However, very sig- 
nificant factors were included in the December data; Uranus had moved 
into Scorpio and was working toward a trine with Saturn, Jupiter was 
nearing a trine to Saturn which also would be a trine to Uranus; and, the 
opposition cf the Node to 8° Gemini culminated late in the month. With 
the stock market at the lowest point since the panic cf 1962, and within 
shouting distance cf the highs cf 1956, it was the framework cf a classic 
low. 
The 1974 market trends confirmed the 1932-1965 upward major 
trend had reversed to a major downward trend in its first decline made 
in 1966. However, an intermediate upward trend correction should fol- 
low, and be cf considerable magnitude in prices and quite lengthy in 
time. 
In the projected trend estimates for 1975, issued and copyright in De- 
cember 1974, a peak was anticipated May 29th when a strong square of 
Jupiter and Saturn occurred, and repeated in late June and again in 
mid-July. By December, and Jupiter turning direct the 11th, the up- 
swing was projected to resume. 
Recall in the foregoing that the September through December 1974 
cyclic data was turning into bullish. Meantime the technical structure 
of the stock market had developed that the primary or major trend, in 
terms of the Averages, was down. The widely acclaimed 1973 high on 
the Industrials, which never had been confirmed by the Transport 
Average, had been a false move which had collapsed into the panic con- 
dition cf 1973 and 1974. What caused the panic? Of course there are a 
multitude of reasons and explanations are comfortable. 
But We Are Going to Ignore Everything But Astro-Cycle Timing 
and then look for confirmatory action in the trend and market ampli- 
tude. 
So charts cf market statistics are the next step in putting it together. 
D' the section on setting up the geometrical chart form needed has been 
quickly read and not carefully studied step by step retracement may be 
irksome at the moment. Here is a simplified explanation. That it may

--- PAGE 124 of 143 ---

FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER 
123 
seem repetitious may clarify some factors which may have been hazy. 
The application is for the more prevalent daily chart cf price ranges, to 
aid in grasping the method. 
The elements which mark the transaction cf any exchange, in indi- 
vidual stocks and in any commodity, are the end result cf an auction re- 
sulting from many sources. The elements which motivate these sources 
are operating twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, although 
the auction market may operate for only a few hours a day in a five day 
week. In order to visualize some cf the actual phenomena cf market 
trends and the waves of activity a daily chart must show every calendar 
day. Where Saturday, Sundays and holidays occur blank spaces show in 
the chart. 
The second fundamental is to recognize the immutable law that a 
visual record cf price trends accepts the premise that time and space, 
or amplitude and distance, must be equal. Thus, if one space represent- 
ing one calendar day in the horizontal plane is one-eighth inch, then one- 
eighth inch is mandatory in the vertical plane to represent one unit cf 
price. The unit prices most commonly accepted are one dollar for one 
point in a stock, one cent as one point in grain, etc. 
The two initial fundamental premises are; on daily price range charts 
all calendar days must be shown, and the width cf the space comprising 
a calendar day is exactly the same as the height cf the space representing 
the unit price.

--- PAGE 125 of 143 ---

CHAPTER TWO 
TIMING ELEMENTS 
As a market tool, charts afford an interpretive insight which is culti- 
vated by experience. In themselves charts do not forecast but market 
action revealed by charts presents means cf interpretation to the ob- 
server from Which tentative projections may be formulated. 
Means cf estimating the duration in time and the objective in price of 
a market trend, whether upward or downward, is the goal cf market 
analysis. The multitude cf factors involved have so few absolutes on 
which to base judgment the process is more an interpretive art than a 
science. However, if market charting is adapted to those mathematical 
laws cf trigonometric relations which apply to all problems of time and 
space many factors cf science may be applied, and interpretation forti- 
fied. 
Trigonometry involves angles. An angle is generated by two lines, one 
stationary and the other rotating. In market charts the stationary line 
becomes a major high, or conversely a major low. Angles are measured 
in radians or in degrees. A circle divides into 360 degrees; when it is 
divided by two lines at right angles through the center the angle at the 
center is 90 degrees. The circle then has four quadrants cf 90 degrees 
each. Note that the angle defines the number cf degrees. F a radius of a 
circle is bent on the circumference cf the same circle the subsequent arc 
marks an angle termed a radian. A radian is 57" 17' 45" or 57.2958"; pi 
is 3.14159, so pi radians is 180°; pi/2 radians is 90°; pi/3 radians 60° 
The harmonic divisions of 90° are V2 or 45°, Vi or 22l/20 and Vs HVi0. 
The harmonic divisions of 60° are Vz or 30°; V* or 15° and Va 7 V2 T In 
our market charting we view these degrees as angles cf the amplitude of 
trends cf prices and the distance velocity in time and price. Thus there is 
the velocity cf either an advance or decline in prices defined in degrees, 
and in addition there is a harmonic relation in the angle cf velocity to the 
waves cf prices. A rise which adheres to a trend channel cf approxi- 
mately 15° degrees reveals price resistances at 15, TVz, 3%. To il- 
lustrate: a stock in a 15" uptrend has an upside breakout at 35, ma- 
jor resistance will be at 35 plus 15 and lesser resistance at 35 plus 
3% and 35 plus IVz, as long as the 15" uptrend channel remains in- 
tact. Another stock is priced at 20 where a series of minor highs have 
occurred and it leaps out cf this established resistance at an apparent 
45° uptrend angle. Probable resistance to the new advance will appear 
at 20 plus 45, 221/2, 11 Vr and SVg. This works out as 20 plus 5% or 
25%, 20 plus 1 l%or 31%, etc. 
The velocity cf prices changes forms one insight to the power cf the 
momentum which eventuates probable exhaustion. A directed magni- 
tude cf this velocity then can be estimated by vectors. A major vector 
has within it a series cf smaller vectors which often differ in magnitude 
and direction. And a charted market trend cf daily prices has a major or

--- PAGE 126 of 143 ---

TIMING ELEMENTS 
125 
general trend within which are a number cf minor trends cf varying 
magnitude and duration. In charting the applications to use are polar 
coordinates where a vector is defined by a magnitude and an angle, or 
vectorial angle. In this usage the 90° harmonics apply to the angle of 
the price trend with its time factor cf days to reach exhaustion, and 60° 
harmonics apply to price resistance. 
Tentative market price objectives which form subsequent resistance 
areas often are revealed in advance by imposing triangles cf varying 
vectorial values. An example is to project one angle on the low close day 
in prices and a lesser angle on the first preceding low close day; the 
crossing will estimate exhaustion in time and price. To illustrate—the 
Dow Jones Industrials have an average velocity cf 45" or one-half cf 
pi/2 radians. The associated price resistance factor then is 60°. 
Below are tracings of a daily chart of the Dow Jones Industrials from 
March through June 1960. In Chart A the day cf the highest close is at 
(B); the highest preceding close day is at (A). As soon as the setback 
from (B) brought a close below the previous low close day (X) a 
tentative projection was entered. A 45° angle was entered at (A) and 
a 60° angle projected from (B). The convergence at (C) indicated a 
potential base between 600 and 605 the first week in May. 
625 
660 
62C) 
d 5 
650 
610 
640 
615 
600 
24 1 
May I960

--- PAGE 127 of 143 ---

126 
SECTION IV 
Price Chart B duplicates Chart A until after mid-April. When the 
early May projection was confirmed, when the close (E) was above the 
preceding high close (D) the low close day at (BB) was imposed with 
an upward 60° angle and at the preceding low close day (AA) a 45" 
angle was entered. This presented a tentative possibility cf the Indus- 
trials achieving the 660 level in early June. Note also the arithmetical 
resistance approximations; for example, from (BB) the first surge was 
598 plus 15, the second surge 598 plus 30; the eventual top approxi- 
mately 598 plus 60. 
In practice the precision cf the foregoing is often upset by unusual 
surges cf mass psychology. As a defense several measures are constantly 
used to fortify judgment and guard against changes in the apparent 
normal cf market action. 
Refer briefly to the circle in quarters with its quarter square on page 
and then the subsequent page depicting the full 90° square with the 
more critical angles. The daily application has been outlined leading up 
to the significant applications. 
Often there is a search for repeating cycles by statistics and then 
there is the constant reference to the economic cycle. The former is the 
often heard 9 year cycle, the 11 year cycle, the 18 year cycle or the 54 
year cycle. Recently the unprecedent extreme low cf 1976 in Sun-Spot 
activity, and its wide range of effects related to weather, harvests and 
humans, has relegated its average 11 years cycle to prospects cf a major 
cycle cf 80 to 90 years. It has been a wide search for statistical cycles 
with indifferent success. 
The latter or what is labeled the economic cycle avoids being trapped 
by a time factor. Conveniently it is often a theory. A prospective de- 
mand such as housing is pump-primed with capital and credit. Contracts 
are let and in a certain period cf interval business supplying materials 
expand as producers convert raw materials. So it goes, one factor sprout- 
ing another, until the "cycle" runs its course; it might be a brief year or 
two, or it might run for many years. Its greatest problem is a trail cf bad 
judgment. Statistical cycles constantly skate the surface trying to av- 
erage a factor from past statistical ebb and flow. Astro-cycles have been 
carefully rejected as faulty to start with, or in more recent years since 
the puritan mystique has lost its thought-control powers, most research 
has been confined to five or ten years cf research effort, and then rushing 
into print. The factors become overwhelming by their large number in- 
stead cf being sifted down to potent and workable simplicity. Certainly 
it has faults cf omission. 
Someone claims astro-cycles all converge to the same position once 
briefly only every 26,000 years. It may be true but the point is no two 
cycles are exactly alike. Jupiter has its 12 year cycle but in the 12 years 
its apparent retrograde and forward paths aspect other astro-cycles with- 
out simple statistical repetition. And markets reflect timing factors 
which are not precisely symmetrical as mathematical cycles, a statement 
which seems elementary but is noted here because a degree cf elasticity

--- PAGE 128 of 143 ---

TIMING ELEMENTS 
127 
has to be accepted. A market may be projected to top out at noon Mon- 
day and doesn't; it tops out late Tuesday, etc. 
The Earth takes 365 days to go around the Sun, and the Moon makes 
JULY JAN. JUNE 
1974 OCT. 1975 APR. JULY. OCT. 1976 APR JULY 
DOW-JONES TRANSPORT AVERAGE 
WEEKLY PRICE RANGES 
JULY 1974-SEPT. 1976 
(6) 
V 
(7) 
r 
(8) 
13 revolutions around the Earth in 364 days, or 7 revolutions in 9 1 days. 
A satisfactory graphic presentation is to use the 360° circle, divide it in 
four 90° parts, and keep repeating the 90" square at highs and lows. Re- 
lated is the phenomenon cf markets staging price surges cf 11 calendar 
days (9 market days) which relates to the 88 day cycle cf Mercury in- 
terlaced with the 365" and 28° and 91" factors. 
The most comprehensive and valuable charts are those cf the weekly 
ranges. Useful are monthly range charts. The tendency is to get trapped 
with so many daily range charts interpretation gets lost. Application

--- PAGE 129 of 143 ---

128 
SECTION IV 
cf the weekly range chart exhibits many useful elements. In the fore- 
going, 1974 cyclic data noted a rebound and substantial upswing in the 
stock market was in the prospect. A possible September low was the 
alert with late December the probable kick-off into the upside. This 
portended a base in October to December inclusive. The Dow-Jones 
Transport Average chart is used for clarity and space limitations.

--- PAGE 130 of 143 ---

CHAPTER THREE 
CHARTING THE PRICE 
RANGE DATA 
This chart is the weekly ranges cf the Dow-Jones Transport Average 
from July 1974 to August 1975 inclusive. As discussed, the September 
low was anticipated late in 1973. When the October rally and subse- 
quent minor setback stabilized at higher levels than the September low, 
confirmation cf the September low was implied. The two parallel 30° 
lines (line A & line B) were entered, from the October low close week 
and the July high close. Added was the dashed line exactly between 
the two which was to represent market vitality, viz, ranges below the 
dashed line would be weak, on the line normal strong, above the line 
excessive strength inviting distribution. 
Next step was to enter the initial 45°—60° bisecting projections (in 
very volatile moves resort has to be made to try a 60°—75° combina- 
tion). Point (1), for the 60° line, was at the bottom cf the LOW CLOSE 
week cf the setback in early December. Point (2) 45° from the Novem- 
ber low close week. The convergence (3) was in the center cf the tenta- 
tive range of closes at 166 the first week cf April. When the April 
tentative objective was approached the market was very strong (above 
the midline slightly) but nevertheless reacted as due, up about 30 points 
on the move from point (1). (Recall that 30 points or degrees are a 
critical zone). 
The reaction was quickly absorbed and the low close week range had 
a tentative (dashed) line (4) entered which converged in May at a 172 
close. This was the zone cf the cycle high cf the year prospect we 
already discussed. Also the 172 prospect was precisely 45 points above 
the October extreme low close week cf 1974. It was time to move out. 
On the move the actual high close cf the year was made on the weekly 
ranges the second week cf July after seven weeks cf lower prices and 
swinging congestion. 
Confirmatory weakness in late July invited placement cf downward 
angle lines (5) and (6) which converged at (7) approximately on 
closes 22 points down or half cf the critical 45 points resistance, imply- 
ing a strong market and higher levels. However, the major underside 
upward 30° line from the October low close week was under test for six 
weeks but without a close making a penetration cf it. Conclusion: take 
out any short positions but defer buying pending more well defined 
market prospects. 
At this juncture an upward 60° line was placed at the bottom cf the 
low close week (8) (at 150—151) and a 45° line at the bottom cf the 
low close week PRECEDING the high of late July, which converged 
at 204-205 in April 1976. As it was close to the major 60° resistance, 
and the price ranges substantially above the median line, headlong buy-

--- PAGE 131 of 143 ---

130 
SECTION IV 
ing demand was coming in. Prices could attack the upper side cf the 
channel, marked by (B), but the third upward phase was in full bloom 
and the upward intermediate trend was blowing off. It was time to be 
a nice fellow and feed out the stocks they were bidding up in the fever 
to buy. 
This same step by step procedure, if followed exactly as detailed, can 
be applied to any stock or commodity which is active and has participa- 
tion. 
Spend no time experimenting with different scales cf measure and 
papers. The 5 spaces to a centimeter, with each centimeter accented, is 
available at almost all stationery stores. Cheaper grades, but the same 
precise measure, are in every super-market and variety stores in SVs/'x 
11" that carry school supplies. Sheets can be glued together as needed. 
The uniformity afforded gives facility with projections and the rela- 
tively small size is easy in picking out prospective moves. Plastic pro- 
tractors (180°) cf the 6" variety are a must. The 15, 40, 45, 60, 75 and 
90 degree lines can be scratched and inked on them. 
T o lay out paper and set it up to begin a chart sometimes is a road- 
block. The data is not available or takes too much time to search out. 
Sometimes the plea is that it means going through weeks cf back issues. 
BARRON'S is the most available source cf weekly price ranges and a 
subscription to build a file cf copies is a good investment. Most specula- 
tors with a background cf working at market action keep charts cf the 
daily price ranges cf several commodities and stocks. These charts can 
be readily used to run the WEEKLY ranges which comprise the secret 
cf this method. 
Without a variety cf personal daily charts and pending an accumula- 
tion cf price range data from BARRON'S or other sources, the follow- 
ing are useful. 
DAILY BASIS STOCK CHARTS, issued weekly 
TRENDLINE 1 month--4 issues $27.50 
345 Hudson Street 
New York, N. Y. 10014 
3-TREND SECURITY CHARTS Single copy $7.00 
(weekly ranges; do not confuse with Cycli-Graphs) 
Securities Research Company 
208 Newbury Street 
Boston, Mass. 02116 
The Trendline charts are daily ranges which must be translated to 
our weekly ranges and the week's close included. The Security Charts 
are weekly and cover about two preceding years. Unfortunately it is in 
a semi-log scale which is useless for our purpose. But weekly ranges may 
readily be placed on our chart form. Volume also is valuable and might 
be used also. On both cf the above a good magnifying glass, in order to 
get closes exactly, is needed. 
Our comments and illustrations have been confined to upward trends.

--- PAGE 132 of 143 ---

CHARTING THE PRICE RANGE DATA 
131 
Often more profitable in a shorter length cf time are short positions, or 
short against purchases which cannot be liquidated for one or several 
reasons. All techniques are cf course reversed. For example, the basic 
working unit cf the 90 square unit with its angles from an apex at the 
lower left hand corner is turned so the apex is at the UPPER left hand 
corner. This is obvious but years ago readers sometimes reported dif- 
ficulty in applying this device. 
A very few readers in the 1930's, when this work first appeared, 
critically rejected it. In several cases these critics were asked to send 
charts that the problem, if any, might be overcome. In every case they 
had intruded their own ideas or habits cf charting, usually by distorting 
the scale so that the price unit was not exactly equal to the time unit. 
Sometimes the weekly closes were carelessly entered or left out entirely. 
As a final comment this text requires step by step study. Casual 
readers will be unable to follow parts cf the text, and proceed to take a 
critical stance this is just another book. It is not, but some key factors 
are scattered through the text. Herein is the complete skeleton cf the 
results cf 54 years cf research and study which included 45 years as a 
professional analyst. Many long time clients have insisted for the past 
ten years that my personal methods cf interpretation should be recorded 
for others who are sincere students searching income and security in 
perhaps the most exploited money melange in our society — speculative 
markets.

--- PAGE 133 of 143 ---

CHAPTER FOUR 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS 
FOR A LOCALITY 
(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters) 
Locate from an atlas or other source the latitude and longitude of 
the location to be examined within a degree cf each. Refer to the World 
Map page to define the proper sign zone. For example, let us take Pitts- 
burgh, Penna. The approximate data shown in a Table cf Houses 
(Simplified Scientific T cf H by Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, 
Calif, covers 0° to 66° latitude.) is 40° N. Latitude, 80° W. Longitude. 
From 60° to 90° W. Longitude is the sign Capricorn. On the companion 
USA map 80° W, is in the Aries Dwadasamsas ruled by Mars Pluto 
(action, steel, iron, etc). The count cf West Longitude is counter- 
clockwise beginning at Greenwich 0°. But the count within Signs is 
clockwise. Thus 90" W. Longitude is 0° Capricorn with 80° W. Longi- 
tude 10° Capricorn. 
To be meticulous, which is superficial in this instance, we can intrude 
the Pyramid correction cf 1° 7%'. This means that 90° W. Longitude 
becomes a trifle less than 89° and Capricorn 10° then is slightly less 
than 9". Turning to the Table cf Houses under 40° Latitude and 9" 
Capricorn on the 10th house cusp we find 9° (page 214) and apply the 
data to a chart form. 
In Raphael's Ephemeris for 1977 we use January 23rd data as the 
beginning cf the biggest winter storm in many years. The data is for 
noon London but adjustments are not needed; it is entered in the proper 
houses. See chart. 
Ruler cf the 10th is Saturn in the 5th and retrograde in Leo. The 
tables cf planetary signs and houses makes this position an 8th house, 
with 10th house mixed tones, active in the 5th house. On January 23rd 
Saturn was sextile Pluto, square Uranus, trine Neptune, quincunx Mars, 
but exactly biquintile the MC with Mercury rapidly nearing a conjunc- 
tion with the MC. This is a more devastating major storm potential 
than in the famous and costly affair cf 1888, and similarly, the smaller 
storm of 1918; Saturn was in Leo also in both cf the latter. 
Putting together some cf the key words to the foregoing we have: 
In winter the long angle cf the Stm's rays on the Earth keeps the tem- 
perature of the Earth's atmosphere at low ebb. Leo is a Fire sign ruled 
by the Sun and Saturn in Leo makes the Earth colder than normal; in 
the 5th house depresses the welfare cf the area cf the sign it rules 
(Capricorn), generates hardship for women and children, reduces 
speculative activity and public confidence and can be very depressing 
to business and government. The key words cf each aspect and planet 
can exhibit the various problems and imply the final outcome, as

--- PAGE 134 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
133 
12 
9 
V5 
18 
z
1 
161 
op 
37' 
Pgh., Pa, 
1/23/77 
16 
14$ 9 137 
X 
18 
.a 
2 
changing aspects are followed in the ephemeris for subsequent weeks 
or months. 
In a locality chart the house each planet is in may be significant. And 
when a planet is in aspect to one or more other planets its potency is 
enhanced. So-called good and bad aspects are cf little significance. The 
square and the trines are significant but are cf differing values according 
to the natures cf the planets involved. An opposition cf Venus and 
Jupiter lacks the activation cf such an aspect as Mars to Saturn, for 
example. And the generally ignored biquintile group are the action 
triggering group, second only to the conjunctions to the 1st, 4th, 7th and 
10th house cusps, viz Asc., Nadir, Desc., and MC. 
In our example chart the forepart of 1977 presents a disturbing busi- 
ness, health and weather prospect for the Capricorn rulership area. The 
often mitigating influence of Jupiter is quite meagre in Taurus and 
lacking any close aspect of planet array. In early January Mercury was 
retrograde in Capricorn activating the aspect array centering on Saturn 
in Leo. Then Mars entered Capricorn, Mercury turned direct to cross 
the MC, with its 144° (biquintile) aspect to Saturn January 23rd and 
its converging sextile to Uranus on the 26th. Mercury Uranus aspects

--- PAGE 135 of 143 ---

134 
SECTION IV 
at sensitive chart points always indicate wind and when closely aspected 
are the key to tornado paths; Saturn indicated cold. 
The Mercury Mars in Capricorn combination continued active. 
February 2nd Mars at 24° and Mercury at 18° triggered the Saturn in 
Leo aspected array on the MC Leo locality zone in the section from 
about 140" East Longitude or about 20°. At about 40" North Latitude 
the Tables cf Houses gives us 20° Leo on the MC and 11° Scorpio on 
the Asc. Reported from Northern Japan were heavy losses and damage 
with about lOVi feet cf snow over a period cf 48 hours. Uranus was 
conjunct with Asc. ruling the 4th with property damage large and sud- 
den. Thus abnormal planetary arrays in Capricorn and centered in 
Western Pennsylvania late in January 1977 had varying effects in other 
areas. For example, Saturn in 14" retrograde in Leo approximates the 
MC cf the Japanese storm area. Another, with the same data; — Place 
Uranus 11° or 41° East Long. 10" No. Lat. Scorpio on the NADIR (4th 
cusp) cf the 11" MC; 2" Aquarius Asc. ruled by Uranus, with Mars the 
trigger. Ethiopian leadership assassinated in a major revolt. 
Sometimes indications are observed which seem to indicate an im- 
portant change in local weather and nothing occurs. The forces might 
be compared to a loaded gun which has all the elements to produce 
shooting a bullet. Nothing happens without trigger action. Note care- 
fully trigger aspects conjunct or close aspects from the quintile group to 
the angle house cusps, exact degree of the preceding lunation, and oc- 
casionally the parallel shift from North to South and South to North cf 
Mercury, Venus and Mars. 
T o aid initial facility in interpretation, experiment with these key 
words. 
Sign 
Nature 
1st Decan 
2nd Decan 
3rd Decan 
(T) ARIES 
stormy 
showers 
calm 
hot 
(8) TAURUS 
quiet 
quakes 
wet 
stormy 
(X) GEMINI 
nice 
rain 
temperate 
threatening 
(S) CANCER 
warm 
humid 
normal 
windy 
(.SI) LEO 
torrid 
humid 
quiet 
wet hot 
(HI) VIRGO 
moist 
hot 
humid 
rain 
(=0 LIBRA 
changeable 
nice 
temperate 
moist 
(1U) SCORPIO 
storms 
cold 
static 
turbulent 
(^) SAGITTARIUS 
windy 
humid 
placid 
stormy 
(V5) CAPRICORN 
wet 
dry 
temperate 
moist cold 
(zz) AQUARIUS 
moist 
damp 
changes 
stormy 
(X) PISCES 
wet windy 
nice 
wet 
turbulent 
The key-words helpful in identifying effects cf a planet on weather 
and seismic trends, perhaps over-simplified as strong aspects amplify 
or neutralize the simplified effects, are; 
( S ) Mercury — wind; (?) Venus—temperate & mild; ( S ) Mars 
— turbulence, heat; ( if) Jupiter — mild, warm, sultry; ( b ) Saturn 
--cold, precipitation; (&) Uranus — sudden changes; (tp) Nep- 
tune— strong winds often easterly; (B) Pluto — focuses, amplifies.

--- PAGE 136 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
135 
The aspects between planet positions and orbs cf effectiveness are 
significant. 
A general rule is an orb cf 5% each side cf center, viz, 90" 41/20, 
etc. The opposition (180°) is 9° each side cf center, and the con- 
junction is the same. All orbs in the Quintile series are limited 
to 2°. 
The activity cf aspects may appear confusing as the three classes ac- 
tively used overlap or are in the same degree (0). Interpretation ex- 
perience quickly develops the application in a specific situation. 
Harmonizing aspects (traditionally favorable) are; semi-sextile 
30°, sextile 60°, trine 120° and 180o-30o or 150° quincunx. 
Activating aspects (traditionally unfavorable) are; semi-square 
45°, square 90° and opposition 180°; conjunctions (0°) are of 
planet's natures. The 22 Va0 and the 180-45, which is 135°, often 
are useful. 
The triggering aspects (also marking reversals in some market 
trends) are the Quintiles related to one fifth cf the 360° circle, or 
72°. For example, the root is 9, twice 9 is 18, twice 36 is 72, 72 
plus 18 is 90, 72 plus 90 is 162, 162 plus 18 is 180 (except for the 
latter this series is useful in estimating peaks cf intensity between 
major planets in close aspect). The second series cf quintiles begins 
with; 18 plus 9 is 27, twice 27 is 54, 54 plus 72 is 126, 126 and 54 
are 180. (market trend low points often appear at these angles be- 
tween planets). And particularly in weather and seismic data 72 x 2 
is the 144° angle. 
Since the attempts to develop push-button thinking by computer have 
appeared, which may employ hoards cf people collecting statistics to 
feed the monsters, they may locate recurring cycles cf weather condi- 
tions, business trends, etc. Some cf the outcome have cost a mint cf 
money with the only practical result many people are employed at nice 
wages. Most cf the tentative cycle rhythms usually relate to the follow- 
ing planetary conjunctions cf geocentric computations. 
Saturn Uranus every 44 plus years, Jupiter Uranus every 13 plus 
years, Jupiter Saturn about 20 years, Jupiter Pluto 12 Vz years, 
Uranus Pluto 127, Saturn Pluto 33 Vz, Saturn Neptune 36, Jupiter 
Neptune 12 plus, Uranus Neptune 171, Pluto Neptune 492 years. 
In the late 1930's I had temporary access to detailed daily weather 
data for a mid-west area for much cf the period from 1910 to 1920. 
Before the time involved made it necessary to abandon the project to 
return to making a living a definite Jupiter (rain) and Saturn (cold) 
combination was fruitful. The base was the Rotational Jupiter-Saturn 
Conjunction chart cf 1921 (included in this work on another page). 
This figure was super-imposed on a MC locality figure and around the 
circle daily ephemeris transits were compared approximately 20 years

--- PAGE 137 of 143 ---

136 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
from the 1910—1920 specific daily weather figures. It was not possible 
to bring the research to compare other data time spans. 
Weather and seismic conditions have a marked effect on business, 
health, and all the factors which involve society. In examining clues to 
conditions and probable future trends we can outline months and years 
in advance by day to day computations from an ephemeris which covers 
the periods being examined. It is a mathematical exercise according to 
the framework of methods and procedures offered here. It is about as 
occult, crystal balling, or ESP concentration as driving an automobile 
on a freeway. 
Procedure to examine the business prospect cf a specific area follows 
much the same methods we have applied to weather estimates. Major 
difference is that house positions become more significant and the 
angles (1st, 4th, 7th, 10th) recede from dominance (see section on house 
rulerships). 
As an example we shall briefly review the late 1920's and early 1930's. 
During those years I was traveling extensively in the USA and Canada 
and was daily aware what went on in widely separated localities. 
Modern history is conveniently rewritten often to erase "non-essentials" 
and loses a lot cf truth in the process. Where did the Crash and Depres- 
sion get its start? It was a combination cf many things. After Europe in 
the 1920's, and the sad conditions cf Germany, Russia, etc., there was a 
huge effort by private capital to stabilize the situation. It tried but 
lacked the resources to generate capital, credit and money. The effort 
was made but it collapsed. 
Refer to an ephemeris (preferably Raphael's) for each year from 
1928 to 1933. Set a series cf locality charts cf the house positions only 
for a half dozen centers across the USA, such as New York, Detroit, 
Chicago, etc. For quick review note positions cf Jupiter, Saturn and 
Uranus only on these charts beginning in 1928. Saturn is in the MC 
area cf Sagittarius MC charts cf the West and is moving East. Late in 
1929 it is established in Capricorn moving to a square cf Uranus in 
Aries in a first house ruling the 12th. 
In 1930 Saturn clings to Capricorn in square to Uranus and Jupiter 
moves into Cancer squaring Uranus and opposing Saturn. Through 
1931 the situation hangs on until early in 1932 with Saturn moving 
East to Aquarius out cf Capricorn. In 1952 there was a somewhat re- 
lated situation cf square and opposition. But it occurred in entirely dif- 
ferent sectors than the 1930's in sign positions and locality houses. 
Saturn at MC is the clue to the depression cf the 1930's. 
Incidentally, if a person super-imposes a chart cf birth on a selected 
locality the effects cf that environment often will be indicated. T o 
illustrate locality factors refer to data on the mid-1930's for the upper 
mid-west. Saturn by forward and apparent retrograde was on the 
Ascendant opposing Neptune, Uranus afflicted also but in the second 
house, etc.; it was depression compounded by drought situations. Many 
ultimately profited immensely but the majority suffered, particularly 
those with their personal chart positions related to the Saturn in Pisces

--- PAGE 138 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
137 
locality chart. Some years ago a person who consistently experienced liv- 
ing and career problems in New York City, with an afflicted 4th house at 
the NYC MC in Capricorn, moved to Idaho where the Sagittarius MC 
was conjunct his Jupiter. In the subsequent several years he realized 
excellent business, health and social success. Of most value though is 
the means to adjust to the problems cf a locality through an insight into 
area syndromes, in relation to the aspirations cf the person exploring 
the situation. 
EARTHQUAKES 
A Long Range Forecasting Procedure 
The Earth is a pulsating mass with changing weather, constantly 
shifting ocean tides, plus thousands cf earthquakes every year. Most 
of the latter never are sensed but occasionally the exception occurs 
and generates devestation and loss cf human life. Recent estimates are 
that earthquake fatalities in 1976, from the Guatemala. China and 
Turkey epicenters, were the largestjhncejjie year 1566_AJ3. T o include 
theMarcn ttn, iy// major losses in Rumania intensifies the problem. 
Science explains the mechanics cf earthquakes is a movement cf the 
earth's crust which is from 2 to 30 miles deep. Under the crust is a hot 
liquid mantle about 1,800 miles deep and then into the center a hot 
metal inner and outer core about 2,200 miles thick. Forces below the 
crust may fracture and break the crust to form mountains, volcanic 
eruptions and earthquakes. In some instances the surface crust has been 
damaged and a break or fracture exists which marks weakness and 
repeated tremors occur; then quakes become a regular situation. 
The point under the earth's crust where the greatest pressure de- 
velops is the epicenter where the earthquake begins. However, greatest 
damage sometimes occurs many miles away by what are called seismic 
waves. A homely example is watching a pie baking in a hot oven with 
the top crust without any vent holes. After a time the pressure in the 
pie begins to mount, the crust bulges and subsequently the edges burst 
open or the thinest area cf the crust pops in a small explosion. On the 
earth's crust the increasing pressure causes the bending, dropping and 
sometimes breaking cf the surface, to generate the quake. 
Very little has been accomplished in the efforts to forecast the time 
and place cf earthquakes. In some areas earth tremors occur almost 
daily and are under constant study. The San Andreas fault in California 
extends about 650 miles along the Pacific Coast from north cf San 
Francisco south. In the sparsely populated mountain area cf southwest 
Oregon—northwest California in 1926—27 severe earth tremors aroused 
panic to find the cause. During the years to follow a forecasting formula 
was attempted. Like everything else it has limitations, but the way 
estimates weeks, months, and in several instances years in advance, 
have been confirmed in approximate time and place, is cf interest. Al- 
though asked for my method of interpretation I have avoided explana-

--- PAGE 139 of 143 ---

138 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
lions; these notes present the simple procedure, with the hope others 
will test the method. 
Usually most observers are interested in a specific area where the 
latitude and longitude are readily apparent. The forecaster wants to 
scrutinize where and when a quake may occur. The location is un- 
known. Here is a means cf overcoming the problem. 
Soon after mid-1976 Raphael's Ephemeris for 1977 was issued the 
initial result was to scan the cyclic prospects day by day. The first crisis 
area appeared on February 24th in which Uranus, Saturn and Mars 
were in the same degree but NOT the same signs. Uranus in Scorpio 
was square Saturn in Leo and retrograde; with Mars in Aquarius op- 
position Saturn and square Uranus. This is earthquake weather if a 
Where a quake generates major losses in human life and property 
the first house cf a locality chart usually is heavily involved. All the 
angles are significant in locality interpretation but where loss cf life and 
extensive property damage occur the ascendant (cusp cf the first house) 
are involved. Therefore in our initial example to locate the geographical 
place where quake action might occur both the MC (cusp of 10th 
house) for longitude and the Ascendant for latitude have to be searched 
out. 
Involved primarily are Uranus in 11" Scorpio, Saturn retrograde in 
11° Leo and Mars 11° Aquarius. If our interest is confined to one area, 
such as the United States, reference to the World Zone map 139 W. 
Longitude (11° Scorpio) is in Eastern Alaska, and the only MC loca- 
tion in North America, as the other signs are Leo and Aquarius. With 
11° Leo the position is 131 East Longitude suggesting Japan, the Philip- 
pines, etc, while Aquarius 11° is 49 West Longtitude through Greenland 
and Eastern Brazil. 
Before searching Ascendants at 11° degrees for each it should be 
noted most cf the serious earthquakes rim the entire Pacific Ocean 
shores and islands. From New Zealand north around the Bering Sea 
and south down North, Central and South Americas is more or less 
quake prone. The only other major zone in recent years is Eastern 
Europe in the area cf 40" to 45° North Latitude and 20° to 50° East 
Longitude. The latter "rings a bell" that the Aries-Taurus MC locality 
in that area of North Latitude has a Leo Ascendant. 
Now it is a simple matter cf locating in a Table cf Houses in the 
Latitude of 45° as a beginning for 11° cf Leo on the Asc. This is located 
and shows 28" Aries on the MC. In the column for 46° North Lat. the 
11° Asc. has 26" Aries on the MC. On the Locality map 26" to 28° 
Aries is 26° to 28° East Longitude. This would show formation cf a 
possible epicenter where internal pressure begins to build at approxi- 
mately (we have avoided minutes by dealing only in degrees cf latitude 
and longitude) 46° North Latitude and 27° East Longitude. This 
center is 50 to 100 Miles north cf Bucharest, Rumania. 
If this is the where, the question is when? There must be a trigger 
where any of the pressure build-up could explode. Mars at the 7th

--- PAGE 140 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
139 
cusp ruling the 10th and part cf the 4th promises heavy property 
damage and government losses. Saturn at the 1st (people) rules the 6th 
afflicted is prospect cf many death and health hazards. Uranus in the 
4th gives promise cf an entirely unexpected event requiring help from 
other countries. Therefore a trigger point is serious. The first one is the 
Sun crossing 11" Pisces on March 2nd, and then the Moon conjunct 
Saturn and the Asc. March 3rd. On the 4th Mercury is at 3° Pisces 
after completing the 162° quintile to Asc. Saturn for the big test; if 
anything is to happen it is due March 4th, 1977. 
On March 8th, 1977 Mercury was 120° from Uranus and 150° from 
Saturn. Using 130° East Longitude and North Latitude (10° Leo on 
the Locality map and Saturn on the MC) a quake occurred below cf 
Japan Sea. This action is attributed to a reflex cf the same February 
24th aspects.

--- PAGE 141 of 143 ---

140 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
Rumania Quake 
46 N 264 East 
March 4, 1977 
12 
?r 
"Y- 
II 
11 
11 
28 
28 
■189 
VS 
12 
Qy 
25 
Epicenter reported 95 miles north cf Bucharest. 
MAJOR MODERN EARTHQUAKES AND THE RICHTER SCALE 
The most commonly used method for describing earthquake intensity 
is the Richter Scale. 
The system, devised by C. F. Richter and later refined by Richter and 
Beno Gutenberg, measures the magnitude cf a quake on a logarithmic 
scale using readings from a pendulum seismograph. 
Each number represents an intensity about 10 times greater than 
the preceding number—an earthquake rated 7.5 would be 15 times 
greater than a shock measured at 6 on the scale. 
A Richter reading cf 1 to 3 would be a light tremor; 3 to 4, minor 
damage near center; 5-6, moderate damage near center with injuries 
unlikely; 6 to 7, felt over large area, heavy damage near center with 
injuries possible, 7 to 8, widespread damage, fatalities probable; above 
8, many buildings destroyed and large number cf deaths and injuries. 
Richter readings have been used to evaluate all major quakes in the 
20th century.

--- PAGE 142 of 143 ---

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
141 
• ^ _ 
Leningrad 
o fh U.S.S.R.T 
Moscow" 
Stockholm 
North 
Sea 
den. 
Riga 
sc? 
NETH. 
Berlin 
r • 
yEAST 
Warsaw 
POLAND 
WEST EA 
GERMANY 
MAJOR 
EARTHQUAKE 
CZECAy0Tv 
Vienna i**" MKIA^ 
\ 
5WITZ 
Austria 
mgA 
ROMANIA/ I ^ \ 
^ y^Bu^est 
Belgrade* 
Black Sea 
BULGARIAX 
X 
J- o. 
o 
-v A 
Rome 
-7 
A 
ALB. 
ITALY 
SICLY 
TURKEY 
<3 
GREECE 
Place 
New Madrid, Mo. 
San Francisco, Calif. 
Valparaiso, Chile 
Kansu, China 
Tokyo, Japan 
Non-Skan, China 
Japan 
Chilian, Chile 
Southern Chile 
Alaska 
Guatemala 
Near Peking, China 
* Estimate by Frank M. 
Dale 
1811-1812 
April 18, 1906 
Aug. 16, 1906 
Dec. 16, 1920 
Sept. 1, 1923 
May 22, 1927 
March 2, 1933 
Jan. 24, 1939 
May 21, 1960 
March 27, 1964 
Feh. 4, 1976 
July 28, 1976 
Wolley in the "People's Almanac. 
Richter 
Deaths 
10* 
?? 
8.3 
452 
8.6 
20,000 
8.6 
100,000 
8.3 
99,330 
8.3 
200,000 
8.9 
2,990 
8.3 
28,000 
8.3 
5,000 
8.5 
114 
7.5 
22,778 
8.2 
300,000

--- PAGE 143 of 143 ---

142 
ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 
The problem cf earthquakes has persisted for centuries and the ef- 
forts to define the time and place of occurrence goes on. My work in 
the subject has been incidental as a phase cf economic causes. For 
centuries astro-cyclic data applied to quakes has been issued. Much of 
it has involved quarterly Ingress charts applied to areas which might 
be suspect. Then-charts based on timing comets, eclipses cf both the 
Sun and the Moon, and conjunctions cf resulting charts with Fixed 
Stars have been used. T o examine the material can become quite a 
laborious exercise. However, as scores cf quakes and the reported data 
on them are applied to the same procedures as outlined here for locality 
weather prospects the charts always exhibited fair results. Here is a 
recent example. 
On November 23rd, 1976 a major quake began in Eastern Turkey in 
the mountain area near the Soviet and Iranian borders with the final 
death toll estimated in the thousands. The location approximated 40 E. 
Long. 39 N. Fat. for most loss, but the center probably was northeast of 
there in the most mountainous area. Anyway, for illustration purposes 
the above will suffice. 
The Longitude cf 40 East is 10° Taurus and at 39° N. Fat. and the 
Asc, is 17 plus cf Leo, the nadir or 4th cusp is 10° Scorpio. Saturn was 
16° Leo at the Asc., Jupiter at 25 Taurus in the 10th, Uranus conjunct 
the cusp of the 4th in 8 Taurus, the Node nearby in 1° Scorpio and 
Mars, Mercury and Neptune in the 4th. Tension had been brewing for 
several weeks with such a combination assailing the 4th, 1st and 10th 
cusps. The trigger was the lunation (new moon) cf November 21st 
conjunct the 4th cusp and Mars. Also the Moon had just passed a con- 
junction with Uranus. I" explored the lunation solar eclipse cf October 
23rd may have some build-up effects, as it occurred at 0° Scorpio. 
Oddly enough a quake occurred November 24th 100 miles east of 
Bermuda, or about 77 W. Long. 26 N. Fat. (MC 17 Capricorn, Asc 25 
Aries). Then on the 26th cf November a Pacific Coastal area from 
Eureka north to Crescent City suffered a quake, which was 5.8 on the 
Richter scale, and compares with 8.25 in the San Francisco quake cf 
1906. The Eureka Crescent affair was 124 W. Long. 41 to 42 N. Fat, 
which has an MC cf 26" Scorpio and Asc. from 3" to 2° Aquarius. 
Quakes have occurred historically in virtually all locality MC signs, 
but as noted before, concentrations cf planets centering in the Taurus 
Scorpio signs are quake prevalent (one or the other at the MC). How- 
ever, these pressures having intense aspects to the angles cf other areas 
signal major disasters. Examine three events in Far East areas. First, 
the quake July 28th, 1976 centered at Tangshan, China, 40 N. Fat. 118 
E, Long.,MC 28° Cancer ASC. 23° Libra. Second, on August 18, 1976 
at Mindanao, Philippines, 7 N. Fat. 134 E. Long., with MC 4" Leo con- 
junct Saturn and Asc 6° Scorpio conjunct Uranus and the Node. A 
quake, plus a tidal wave, then over 20,000 homeless. And third, on 
September 12th, 1976 at Okayomas, Japan, 35 N. Fat. 134 E Long., a 
typhoon with 41/2 feet of rain in 5 hours, at MC 13° Leo conjunct 
Saturn, Asc. 7° Scorpio with Uranus. These three are related by similar 
conditions but on examination the precise details differ.