================================================================================
DOCUMENT: pdfcoffee.com-plummer-tony-the-law-of-vibration_compressed.pdf
Total Pages: 225
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER

> i .

THE LAW OF
VIBRATION

WILLIAMD, GANN

=

--- PAGE 2 of 225 ---

[OCR] The Law of Vibration

The Revelation of
William D. Gann

Tony Plummer

--- PAGE 3 of 225 ---

[OCR] HARRIMAN HOUSE LTD

3A Penns Road
Petersfield
Hampshire
GU32 2EW
GREAT BRITAIN

Tel: +44 (0)1730 233870

Email: enquiries@harriman-house.com
Website: www.harriman-house.com

First edition published in Great Britain in 2013
Copyright © Tony Plummer

The right of Tony Plummer to be identified as the author has been asserted in accordance with the
Copyright, Design and Patents Act 1988.

978-0-85719-259-2
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data

ACIP catalogue record for this book can be obtained from the British Library.

Alll rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or
‘otherwise without the prior written permission of the Publisher. This book may not be lent, resold,
hired out or otherwise disposed of by way of trade in any form of binding or cover other than that
in which it is published without the prior written consent of the Publisher.

Printed in the UK by Lightning Source.
No responsibility for loss occasioned to any person or corporate body acting or refraining to act as

a result of reading material in this book can be accepted by the Publisher, by the Author, or by the
employer of the Author.

Harriman House

--- PAGE 4 of 225 ---

[OCR] For the global community of
independently-minded technical
analysts and economists

--- PAGE 5 of 225 ---

[OCR] Contents

About the author

Acknowledgements

Preface

Introduction

Chapter 1: The Enigma of William D. Gann

Chapter 2: The Golden Ratio and the Christian Scriptures
Chapter 3: The Law of Three

Chapter 4: The Sign of the Prophet Jonas

Chapter 5: The Son of Man in the Heart of the Earth
Chapter 6: The Structure of the Musical Octave

Chapter 7: The Law of Seven

Chapter 8: The Octave and the Enneagram

Chapter 9: The Enneagram and Financial Markets
Chapter 10: William D. Gann and the Law of Vibration
Chapter 11: George I. Gurdjieff and the Law of Vibration
Chapter 12: St. Matthew's Gospel and the Law of Vibration
Chapter 13: A Universal Pattern of Vibration

Chapter 14: Inner Octave Cycles

Chapter 15: The Law of Vibration in Practice

Chapter 16: The Final Word

Appendices

Appendix 1: Numerical Equivalents of New Testament Greek Letters

vii

vii

xi

11
19
25
41
53
59
67
81
93
103
115
127
147
159
175

179

--- PAGE 6 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Appendix 2: St. Matthew’s Gospel, Chapter 12, Verses 38-40, Greek Text 181

Appendix 3: The Vesica Piscis and Time 183
Appendix 4: The Structure of William Gann’s Thnnel Thru the Air 185
Appendix 5: The Structure of George Gurdjieft’s Beelzebub’s Tales 187
Appendix 6: The Structure of the First 28 Chapters of Beelzebubs Tales 189
Appendix 7: The 1940-45/46 Inter-Cycle Hiatus 193
Appendix 8: A Note on William Gann's The Magic Word 195
Bibliography 199

Index 203

--- PAGE 7 of 225 ---

[OCR] About the author

Tony Plummer is the director of Helmsman Economics Ltd. He is a former
director of Hambros Bank Ltd, of Hambros Fund Management PLC, and of
Rhombus Research Ltd. He is a Fellow of the Society of Technical Analysts in
the UK and was, until November 2011, a Visiting Professorial Fellow in the
Department of Economics at Queen Mary, University of London. He is the
author of Forecasting Financial Markets, which describes the influence of crowd
psychology on economic activity and financial market price behaviour.

Tony has worked and traded in financial markets since 1976, concentrating
primarily on bonds and currencies. He now specialises in long-term economic
and financial market analysis, and writes and lectures on group behaviour and
trading competencies.

He has a Masters degree in economics from the London School of Economics and
an Honours degree in economics from the University of Kent. He has had four years
of training in Core Process Psychotherapy and is a qualified NLP practitioner.

Acknowledgements

My thanks go very specifically to: first, my wife Glenys who has made so much
possible; second, my former Executive Director and mentor at Hambros Bank
Ltd, David Tapper, without whom my deep interest in financial markets would
never have been catalysed; and, third, my clients at Helmsman Economics Ltd,
whose desire to stay one step ahead of the consensus has persistently energised
my research into the patterns of collective human behaviour.

vii

--- PAGE 8 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 9 of 225 ---

[OCR] Preface

T have for many years been fascinated by the hidden aspects of Nature: by the
order underlying the apparent chaos; by the limited set of mathematical ratios
that appear to reflect that order; and by our personal involvement in that order.
It is my strong belief that individual decisions are almost always contaminated
by collective beliefs and shared moods, and that therefore we have far less control
over our affairs than is supposed. The result, however, is a form of systemic
coherence that is not yet accepted by conventional economic theory.

This book is about a critical aspect of this systemic coherence. It is about a very
distinctive pattern that emerges in the presence of natural cyclical behaviour.
Astonishingly, the pattern was hidden almost 2000 years ago in a small piece of
text in the Greek version of the Christian Gospel of St. Matthew. The pattern
was unearthed, and then buried again, by the famous financial market speculator
William D. Gann. And the same pattern was alluded to, but also hidden, by
the great mindfulness exponent George I. Gurdjieff. The lineage of the cycle
pattern suggests that it represents a genuine revelation. It has taken me more
than 20 years to unravel the code that has hidden this revelation, and I feel very
privileged to have been able to do it.

This book, then, is about a law of vibration that is alleged to permeate the
cosmos. There is strong evidence that this law influences financial market
fluctuations and economic cycles. But the exciting possibility is that signs of the
law of vibration can be found in a whole range of research disciplines — from
cosmology at one end to quantum physics at the other. It may be that William
Gann was an important link in a chain of transmission that — at a minimum —
can be dated back almost two millennia.

--- PAGE 10 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 11 of 225 ---

[OCR] Introduction

THE ROLE OF SHOCKS

It is a great truth that real change only ever comes out of crisis. This is the way
of evolution, which impacts all living organisms, at all levels of being and
understanding. A new item of information — a shock — sends fluctuations deep
into a system and the subsequent feedback becomes increasingly destabilising
until the system flips into a different state. Unfortunately, the crisis is inevitably
painful for all concerned. This is the path of change that involves such diverse
events as wars, revolutions, stock market crashes, mental breakdowns and
physical diseases.

In my opinion, the 2008 financial panic and subsequent recession was just such
a shock. It will undoubtedly lead to changes — both to the economy and in our
understandings about how it operates — for some years to come. We could just
let it all happen, and come out at the other end much older and a little wiser,
but a more productive approach would be to try to understand the real causes of
the problem and then adjust ourselves as quickly as possible. In that way, we
might be slightly less vulnerable to what Shakespeare called “outrageous fortune”.

THE CHALLENGE TO ECONOMIC THEORY

Asa start, it is worth considering why economic theory was not able to anticipate
the events of the last few years — that is, the explosion and collapse in various
asset prices, and the associated economic boom and bust. A large part of the
answer can be found in three areas of debate:

1. The supposedly simplifying assumptions that are used in theoretical
analysis;

2. The re-balancing mechanisms that are thought to operate in an economy;
and

3. The effectiveness or otherwise of government in influencing those
mechanisms.

"William Shakespeare, Hamiler, Act 3, Scene 1.

--- PAGE 12 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

When we make decisions, we have to take account of the fact that the future
may not turn out as we expect. The starting point for economics, therefore, is
to consider exactly how uncertain that future is. The so-called Keynesian (i.e.
fiscalist, and usually socialist) view is that the future is so uncertain — and people
so naturally cautious — that the economy will not spontaneously gravitate
towards full employment equilibrium.’ In addition, it is believed that the
economy is likely to over-respond to negative exogenous shocks.

The neo-classical (i.e. monetarist, and usually conservative) view is that risk can
be quantified in terms of probabilities and therefore priced by the relevant
market.’ Providing that markets are efficient, information is perfect and
participants adhere to rational expectations, the economy will therefore be
drawn towards its natural rate of unemployment. Quite obviously, a believer in
Keynesian subjective uncertainty will conclude that government intervention is
essential, while a believer in neo-classical objective risk will want government
intrusion to be minimal.

SIMPLIFYING ASSUMPTIONS

So who’ right? Unfortunately, as the situation stands, the answer is neither. And
it is not just a question of whether the cynical Keynesian assumption about
people's ability to deal with the future is more sensible than the unrealistic and
unattainable neo-classical one. The fundamental flaw in both arguments is the
presumption that people xormally make their decisions independently of one
another. They do not. Neuroscience confirms that we are Janus-faced: we are
self-assertive, but we also integrate into larger wholes.:

First, we depend on the observed behaviour of others to provide information
that we cannot access directly ourselves.' This modulates, and then offsets, the
subjective uncertainty of Keynesian economics. Second, we absorb, and are
stimulated by, the beliefs and emotions generated by others. This neutralise,
and then destabilises, the objective risk presumed by neo-classical economists.
Dependence on others’ behaviour still allows rational individual decisions, but

"Robert Skidelsky, "The Relevance of Keynes , Cambridge Journal of Economics (anuaty 2011) and John M, Keynes,
“The General Theory of Employment’, Quarterly Journal of Economics (February 1937).

+ John EF. Muth, ‘Rational Expectations and the Theory of Price Movements’, Econometrica (July 1961) and Robert
Lucas, Models of Business Cycles (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1987).

* See, for example, Alexander Easton (Ed.) and Nathan Emery (Ed.), The Cognitive Neuroscience of Social Behaviour
(Psychology Press, London, 2005).

‘The idea of information cascading through a crowd, as a result of individuals responding to local perturbations in
conditions, has become well established in Behavioural Finance. The missing element, however, isa clear recognition
(and acceptance) that human beings are programmed ~ like animals in herds ~ to take note of the behaviour of others.
No individual has all che information necessary for his/her survival. Research by John Dyer has found that it takes
only 5% of people to have a decisive influence on the direction that a crowd of people would take; the rest simply
follow. See John Dyer, etal, Consensus decision making in human crowds,, Animal Behaviour 75:2 (February 2008),

--- PAGE 13 of 225 ---

[OCR] INTRODUCTION

the absorption of others’ beliefs and moods means that these decisions are
nevertheless formed within a non-rational environment.

It follows from this that government spending can be a powerful influence on
individual decisions and on collective beliefs. However, this is not the same as
saying that government is truly an independent agency — let alone a gifted one.
The weakness in interventionist policies is that policy-makers themselves are
affected by the general mood. This has been all too apparent in recent years
where politicians have tried to buy votes by increasing spending during boom
conditions because it can be afforded, only to find themselves having to raise taxes
during difficult times to share the burden. The point is that, unless government
intervention is genuinely contra-cyclical, the feedback between government
activity and collective psychology can be profoundly de-stabilising. Government
activity is a source of potential risk within the economic system.

ENERGY GAPS AND REBALANCING MECHANISMS

The 2008 financial implosion and the associated economic recession arose from
the correlated decisions of people whose mood was influenced by rapidly-rising
government spending and lax credit policies. It was a reaction to excesses and
was not caused by a random, externally-generated, shock. The downswing was,

in fact, an energy gap within the economic system and, as such, it reversed that
system’s polarity from growth to contraction.

I have dealt with this phenomenon in detail elsewhere, but the purpose of such
a gap is to initiate a process that will cleanse the system of excesses. Once the
process starts, it will continue until it is naturally complete. Of course, since
economic theory does not properly recognise the influence of collective
behaviour, nor recognise the adjustment mechanisms created by system excesses,
it cannot define the originating causes or suggest the appropriate solutions (if,
indeed, there are any). And, since economic policy decisions are dependent on
theory, the political result is disbelief, confusion and helplessness.

econom|

This sorry state of affairs exists despite the vast sums of private and public money
that are devoted to research and teaching in the field of economics. New ideas
obviously need to be recognised and adopted so that our understanding of reality
can evolve. In my opinion, one essential change will be to include the concept of
collective behaviour, not just as an occasional blemish on the otherwise smooth
functioning of a rational system, but as a constant influence. And, fortunately,
there are signs that the process of reconsideration and revision has started.

Tony Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets (6th Ed.) (Kogan Page, London, 2010).
See, for example, George A. Akerlof and Robert J. Shiller, Animal Spirits: How Human Psychology Drives the
Economy, and Why it Matter for Global Capitalism (Princeton University Press, 2009).

--- PAGE 14 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

AN ALTERNATIVE VIEW

Nevertheless, it is not certain that making alterations — however necessary — to
the general equilibrium models of economic theory will actually make it any
easier to deal with oscillations in economic activity. The primary reason is that
such changes are unlikely to address the automatic presumption that economic
and financial oscillations are the result either of people making poor decisions
or of unforeseen shocks. So, almost by definition, it is assumed that the resulting
perturbations are errors in the system, which can only be identified and dealt
with after they have materialised.

But what if such assumptions were incorrect? What if fluctuations in economic
activity and financial market prices were essentially a non-random consequence
of collesdve behavidur? And what if aignifidane part of such Auchuations could,
in fact, be anticipated?

The purpose of this book is to demonstrate that this alternative view was
fundamental to the success of one of the greatest stock market traders of all time
— William D. Gann. He believed — and traded upon — the idea that collective
human behaviour exhibits a specific recurring pattern that unfolds through time.
If Mr. Gann’ financial success is a yardstick for genuine wisdom, then economic
theory still has a significant paradigm shift to negotiate.

There are three aspects to the idea of non-random collective behaviour that need
to be registered straightaway. First, it implies that there are forces at work about
which we have very little conception and over which we (therefore) have very
little control. Second, it implies that collective behaviour is not only non-
random but is the outer signature of an inner system process that actively
organises the behaviour of participating individuals.’ And third, it implies that
when individuals lose themselves to group behaviour — i.e. let their psychic
structure be invaded and overrun by group demands’ — their energies are in a
sense sacrificed to group purposes. This deeply disturbing notion helps to
explain the madness of financial market crowds, the blindness of religious and
nationalist fervour, and the destructive power of a rioting mob.

The main point is that the phenomenon of collective behaviour involves two
specific forces: directing people’s energies towards objectives other than their
own; and placing limitations on people's willingness to use their energies for
alternative, non-group, purposes. The result, in effect, is an organism with its
own simplistic psychological process. Moreover, this organism is characterised
by energy fluctuations that are both rhythmic and patterned.

TTony Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets.
"Erich Neumann, Depth Pyychology and a New Ethic (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1990)

--- PAGE 15 of 225 ---

[OCR] INTRODUCTION

OLD AND ANCIENT TEXTS

Mr. Gann was quite explicit in claiming that the foundation of his knowledge
was a small piece of text in one of the Christian Gospels.» The text had been
written by St. Matthew (or by individuals who wrote under that name) and gave
great significance to “the sign of the prophet Jonas”. It seems that Mr. Gann
had deduced that the sign was a reference to a universal law relating to cycles.
My early inference was that, if Mr Gann’s claims were in any sense correct, then
some form of gematria was likely to be involved. Gematria is the technique of
allocating numbers to letters in a text in order to convey extra information, and
it was widely used by writers of ancient scripture to transmit esoteric
understandings. This, in turn, suggested that the appropriate text to be used in
St. Matthew's case was the original Greek version.

This turned out to be the case and, by the mid-1990s, I had found some
extraordinary geometric figures hidden within St. Matthew's text. However, Mr.
Gann’s central claim — that “the sign of the prophet Jonas” specifically provided
a revelation about cycles — continued to elude me. Then, in late 2011, I chanced
upon a research thesis by Sophia Wellbeloved referencing the struggle by the
celebrated mindfulness exponent George I. Gurdjieff to produce a series of
books that would preserve his teachings.” It alerted me to the possibility that St.
Matthew's text may have incorporated a transmission methodology that
extended beyond gematria. And this, amazingly, also turned out to be the case.

The results are literally extra-ordinary. They will be analysed in some detail in
the following chapters in terms of the common themes and transmission
techniques incorporated into three texts: W.D. Gann’s The Tunnel Thru The Air
(hereafter Tinnel), G.I. Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson (hereafter
Beelzebub’ Tales), and St. Matthew's Gospel.

William Delbert Gann died in 1955. He left behind a thought-provoking
combination of very little money in his estate and a reputation of being one of
the greatest stock market traders of all time. George Ivanovitch Gurdjieff died
in 1949. He left behind a reputation for being exploitative and difficult to be
with, but also a unique set of complex and deeply spiritual teachings that have
the power to change people's lives for the better. St. Matthew probably died in
the first century AD. Very little is known about him, but he left behind a record
of the teachings of a man called Joshua ben Joseph, who is now referred to as
Jesus. Those teachings had a profound effect on the course of history.

William D, Gann, The Tunnel Thru The Air (Financial Guardian Publishing, New York, 1927).

"Sophia Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff, Astrology & Beelzebubs Tales (Abintra Books, Aurora (Or.), 2002).

“Gann, Tunnel.

"George I. Gurdjieff, All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man, or Beelzebub’s Tales to
His Grandson (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1950).

“Kurt Aland et al., Greek-English New Testament (Deutsche Bibelgesellschafe, Stuttgart, 1981).

--- PAGE 16 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The thread that links each of these writers in the context of this book is that they
included secret/sacred geometries within the structure of their original written
works.» These hidden geometries point to a fundamental pattern of vibration
that is alleged to pervade the cosmos and that interacts with humanity on a
personal and collective level. Mr. Gann called this pattern the “law of vibration”.

The pattern is said to emerge as a result of discontinuities in the perpetual
processes of expansion and contraction within the cosmos. According to Mr.
Gurdjieff, the discontinuities are a function of the Law of Seven, and the forces
of expansion and contraction are a function of the Law of Three. Amazingly,
and compellingly, the writings of St. Matthew confirm that the pattern was
known about almost 2000 years ago.

TT cannot be emphasised enough that, once the original texts have Been revised and/or translated, the hidden
information becomes inaccessible

xvi

--- PAGE 17 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 1

THE ENIGMA OF
WILLIAM D. GANN

“The Tunnel Thru The Air’ is mysterious and contains a valuable secret,
clothed in a veiled language.”

W. D. Gann

A SECRET TRADING METHODOLOGY

William D. Gann was — by reputation — one of the most successful commodity
and stock traders who ever lived. He operated in the United States during the
early part of the twentieth century, was able to forecast the 1929 Wall Street
Crash,’ and is reputed to have amassed tens of millions of dollars through short-
term speculation.’ He is also reputed to have had access to a unique trading
methodology whose central feature was a secret. He died in 1955, leaving behind
a great deal of confusion as to whether or not he had actually revealed this secret.

It is known — partly through Mr. Gann’s own admission — that the secret
belonged to a hidden order of understanding.’ This fact, more than anything
else, has hampered open-minded research into his techniques: either his work
has been associated with an irreligious view of the world or it has been regarded
as being non-scientific hocus-pocus.

William D. Gann, Supply and Demand Letter: 1929 Annual Stock Forecast (W. D. Gann Scientific Service Inc, New
York, 23 November 1928).

This was at a time when the average annual wage of a non-farm worker was about $1,500. See Stanley Lebergott,
Wages and Working Conditions’, The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (Library of Economics and Liberty,
Indianapolis (In.), 1993).

‘Gann, Tunnel

--- PAGE 18 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

More recently, however, with the questioning of conventional religious beliefs,
and with the growing realisation that the accuracy of scientific research is
dependent on the contextual assumptions that are being used, an increasing
number of people have been prepared to look more closely at Mr. Gann's ideas.
This has probably been particularly easy for financial market traders insofar as
the primary test for truth is profitability rather than religious or scientific nicety.

To date, the most important line of research has been in the area of astrology.
Mr. Gann is known to have been particularly interested in the relationship
between planetary alignments and human psychology, and researchers have —
with some justification — followed his lead. The findings need to be taken
seriously because they confirm that correlations do exist between price
movements and the positions of the planets.» More broadly, there is a growing
body of evidence that correlations exist between mass human psychology and
extra-terrestrial cycles.*

Nevertheless, astrology was not the only element of Mr. Gann'’s trading rules. A
given astrological aspect might constitute a potential turning point, but there is
always a degree of uncertainty as to whether a price reversal will actually occur;
and uncertainty does not appear to be one of Mr. Gann’s characteristics. He
undoubtedly had access to other techniques that supplemented (or even
supplanted) his astrological findings.

THE LAW OF VIBRATION

As anyone who has had contact with his work will know, the dominant (and
unusual) feature of Mr. Gann’s ideas was the use of mathematics and geometry.
What is not clear from the available literature, however, is the actual source of
(or originating authority for) these particular analytical tools. In his early years
of trading, Mr. Gann was quite clear in stating that he had access to special
knowledge. In 1909, he had indicated that he knew a secret law of vibration
In 1927, he further emphasised the point that there was a “hidden secret” that
others could learn.*

Moreover, there was a degree of commitment to his research on the law of
vibration that suggests that it wasn’t just a loosely conceptualised idea. In 1909,
Mr. Gann maintained that he had spent ten years doing exhaustive research,
including “nine months, working night and day in the Astor Library of New

Wid.

In this context, mention needs to be made of the exceptional work done by Bradley F, Cowan. See, for example,
his Pentagonal Time Cycle Theory (Private publication, USA, 2009).

“See especially Richard Tarnas, Cosmos and Psyche: Intimations of a New World View (Plume, New York, 2007).
Interview with William D. Gann, The Ticker and Investment Digest 5:2 (December 1909),

*Gann, Tunnel,

--- PAGE 19 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

York and in the British Museum of London”.» Since Mr. Gann was born in 1878,
this means that he started his research no later than the age of 21. Furthermore,
a journey to London in the early 1900s would have been both time consuming
and expensive.

Given his persistent reference to his knowledge as being secret, it seems probable
that Mr. Gann had access to an understanding about the nature of life that was
different to the understandings held by the contemporaneous religious and
scientific communities.” If this is correct, it does not take a significant leap of
imagination to suppose that the knowledge was genuinely esoteric and that Mr.
Gann was using the ancient science of sacred geometry. This is certainly
consistent with the reverential attitude to spiritual matters that he openly
expressed in his 1950 book, The Magic Word." Even so, there is an important
point about this that is almost always missed. This is that sacred geometry
cannot be applied to a mundane data series without a prior knowledge of the
energetic forces that are driving that series. The analyst has to know what he or
she is looking for. In other words, there is still something missing from extant
knowledge about Mr. Gann's techniques.

It is, therefore, very relevant that two elements are missing from what we know
about Mr. Gann’s knowledge. First, no one has yet revealed, or been able to
explain with any precision, how Mr. Gann’s law of vibration is supposed to
operate in financial markets. Second, as far as | know, nowhere does Mr. Gann
explicitly mention the Golden Measure* or its related number series, the
Fibonacci Sequence." These omissions seem to me to be more significant than
Mr. Gann'’s commission of geometry (and astrology). As this book will argue,
not only do the law of vibration and the Golden Measure co-arise in all natural
phenomena, but both were important parts of Mr. Gann’s understandings about
financial market behaviour. Indeed, he preserved them in a hidden form in his
strange 1927 novel, Tunnel.»

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR

As anyone who has tried to read Tunnel will attest, itis hardly a work of literary
genius in the conventional sense of the word. Indeed, the word dreadful would

"The Ticker and Investment Digest (December 1909)

® Gann, Tunnel. In the story, Robert Gordon — Mr, Gannis alter ego — says that “The general public is not yet ready
for it (ie. the sectet) and probably would not understand or believe it if | explained it.”

"William D. Gann, The Magic Word (Library of Gann Publishing Co, Pomeroy (Wa.), 1950)

©The late Robert Krausz mentioned this in a lecture that he gave at a Computrac conference in 1992, The Golden
Measure is a number (0.618), a ratio (0.618:1) and a continuous proportion between three numbers (0.382, 0.618,
and 1). See Chapters 2 and 3.

"The Fibonacei Sequence is the number series 0, 1, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 95,... ete. where the ratio of each
number divided by its successor tends towards the Golden Ratio, 0.618:1

"Gann, Tunnel

--- PAGE 20 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

bea very charitable appellation. Mr. Gann’s injunction is to read the book three
times: firstly, as an ordinary novel; secondly, to discern some of the hidden
meanings; and thirdly, to find the hidden secret. In other words, the reader has
to look within the text for something far more important than the book's
improbable love and war story.

Throughout most of the book, Mr Gann uses the unusual device of having the
relationship between the hero, Robert Gordon, and his future wife, Marie
Stanton, conducted by the continuous exchange of letters. He also includes —
sometimes within letters, but often separately — extensive quotations from the
Bible, and a number of poems. The first point is that the procedure, in effect,
pads out the story. More specifically, the addition of unnecessary material to a
chapter can be used as a device to control the number of pages in that chapter.
As we shall see, this turns out to be very important.

Second, the interchange of letters themselves may be taken as a metaphor for the
oscillation between the generative and receptive polarities within Nature. This
interpretation is strengthened by the regular intervention in the exchange of letters
by a third party — namely, Mr. Walter Kennelworth. Technically, a third force is
always necessary to balance and direct the exchange between the active (male)
and passive (female) polarities. Indeed, Mr. Gann allows Robert Gordon to state
that “In every law of nature there is... a positive, a negative and a neutral”.

The three forces, taken together, constitute an ancient spiritual law, called the

Law of Three.

The Law of Three

The traditional symbol for the Law of Three was either an equilateral or isosceles
triangle and the traditional mathematical representation of the law was the
Golden Ratio, 0.618:1 or 0.382:0.618. It is therefore relevant that the original
dust jacket of Tinnel contains at least three references to the Law of Three. The
first reference is a tiny equilateral triangle just inside the lower margin (which
contains the infrastructure of a city). The second is an isosceles triangle on the
top of a spire that projects itself out of that lower margin. The important point
is that the positions of both triangles in relation to the width of the book are
then defined by the Golden Ratio: the distance from the left-hand side of the
book is 38.2% of the width of the book for the equilateral triangle and 61.8%

ibid.

“Ieis not my intention to provide a comprehensive analysis of The Tunnel Thru The Air ~ mainly because, for the
purposes of this book, it is not necessary to do so. Nevertheless, this should not be taken to mean that all Mr. Gann’s
secrets are described in what follows.

© Gann, Tunnel. It is the reference to a neutral force that establishes Mr. Gannis credibility. The existence of this
force was largely unknown at the time that Mr. Gann was writing Tunnel.

°*An equilateral triangle has three sides of equal length. An isosceles triangle has two sides of equal length.

--- PAGE 21 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

for the isosceles triangle; and the distance from the right-hand side of the book
is 61.8% of the width of the book for the equilateral triangle and 38.2% for the
isosceles triangle. Moreover, the measurements are exact. See Figure 1-1.

The third reference to the Law of Three is easy to miss. The author's name is
centred under the title of the book, but the title itself is offset from centre. This
is also shown in Figure 1-1. The consequence is that the trailing edge of the first
letter of the author's name is located precisely over the equilateral triangle in the
lower margin. Hence, the distance from the left-hand side of the book to the
start of the author's name is 38.2% of the width of the book, and the author's
name, W. D. Gann, is then contained within the remaining 61.8% of the width
of the book.»

These three oblique references to the Law of Three are unlikely to have been an
accident. Indeed, once a reader starts looking at Tunnel with the prior knowledge
that it contains evidence of the Law of Three, it becomes increasingly obvious
that the whole book was carefully designed to resonate with it. Each page is 4-
7/8 inches wide and 7-3/16 inches high. The ratio between the two
measurements approximates 0.666:1 which — as we shall see — is closely linked
to the Biblical presentation of the Golden Ratio.

THE TUNNEL
THRU THe AIR

‘aa fou
W. D. GANN

MS <g

1:0.666

(ib
>

r Leahy ve

FIGURE 1-1: SCHEMATICS OF MR. GANN’S ORIGINAL BOOK JACKET AND PAGE LAYOUT

‘The references on the dust jacket to the Golden Ratio have, of course, been Tost in subsequent redesigned editions

of Tunnel,

--- PAGE 22 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Meanwhile, the text on each page is presented in an area that measures 3-5/16
inches across and 5-3/8 inches down. The ratio of the width to the height is
therefore 0.618:1. Each page, therefore, consists of a 0.666 x 1 biblical rectangle
containing a 0.618 x 1 ‘Golden’ Rectangle.» Again, see Figure 1-1.

The Law of Three will be analysed in more detail in Chapter 3. It is, however,
only one element of the information that was hidden in Tiennel. Mr. Gann
allows Robert Gordon to speak of an immutable “law of vibration”, which is
mathematically precise and which repeats itself as a series of cycles within cycles.

Gordon is also shown to be critically aware of the importance of the number 7.
The climax of activity in Tiennel, for example, is called “Robert Gordon's Seven
Days” where Gordon puts people to sleep for seven days and, during that time,
destroys those of their buildings that are associated with religion, government,
and business. He starts the task at 07.00 hrs on the 21st (3 x 7) day of the 7th
month (July), and returns 7 days later.»

This placement of the number 7 in the context of cyclical time references a
second ancient spiritual law, called the Law of Seven.

The Law of Seven

The Law of Seven is the law of vibration. It defines the pattern of rhythmic time
cycles and identifies the critical points in these cycles where evolutionary change
can occur. At its simplest level, the Law of Seven is inherent in, and defined by,
the conventional Tonic Sol-Fa musical scale. In its more complex form, the
Law describes the patterns of oscillation in collective human behaviour. The
Law of Seven will be analysed in more detail in Chapter 7.

The central proposal contained in Tunnel, therefore, is that economic activity
and financial market speculation are both driven by two great cosmic laws: the
Law of Three and the Law of Seven. The laws have a long history but, by
tradition, knowledge about them has only been transmitted orally — and then
only in the context of psycho-spiritual development. So how did Mr. Gann
know about their existence, possibly even as early as 1898? In Tunnel, Mr. Gann
(in the guise of Robert Gordon) states that he has “gained a great deal of
knowledge by following the Bible”. This suggests that the two laws (or
something very similar) are somehow hidden within the Bible.

Artists have long known that the average person finds the Golden Rectangle attractive. See, for example, Mario
io, The Golden Ratio (Review, London, 2002).

Robert Gordon's Seven Days’ is the title of Chapter 39 (weitten XXXIX). Chapter 39 nevertheless lies between
Chapters 33 and 35, This is unlikely to have been an ac its meaning is unclear. First, it may be an
echo of, or an acknowledgement of, an earlier reference in Timnel to Eackiel, Chapter 39, which references a burning
of the weapons of war over a petiod of seven yeats. This correlates with Robert Gordon’ destruction of various cities
in seven days, Second, it may be an allusion to a relationship between verse 39 in St, Matthew's Gospel and the Law
of Seven, Nerse 39 is the starting point for a series of calculations that reveals the presence of the Law of Seven

* Ichas, therefore, also been referred to as the “Law of Octav
"Gann, Tunnel

Jent, altho

--- PAGE 23 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

BIBLE SECRETS

It is an important fact that the Bible — like all ancient, and genuinely sacred,
scripture — has two dimensions: the exoteric dimension, which deals primarily
with external laws; and an esoteric (secret/sacred) dimension, which deals with
inner (spiritual) laws. The latter dimension can only be accessed under the right
circumstances — not the least of which is that it is accepted as existing in the
first place. It follows, therefore, that if Mr. Gann was able to unlock the Bible's
innermost secrets then he must also have had access to the necessary keys.

Unfortunately, and until relatively recently, Christian authorities have tended to
deny the existence of an esoteric dimension to the Bible. Consequently, many
practising Christians have viewed the assertion of its existence as being in some
way evil, because it was occult. This point would not have been lost on Mr. Gann,
and would undoubtedly have contributed to his circumspection in revealing the
details of his knowledge. We shall be dealing with one of the relevant insights in
Chapters 2 and 3. In the meantime, what is the proof that Mr. Gann had the
necessary keys to access the hidden inner dimensions of the Bible?

In Tunnel, Mr. Gann refers directly to “the sign of the prophet Jonas”, which is
the subject of Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel. Robert Gordon is made to
say that “I believe that a man who understands the meaning of that [sign] has all
the power under heaven and earth... I believe that that is the key to the
interpretation of the future. Lam sure I have found it and know how to apply it.”

The analysis of St. Matthew's text is complicated and requires a prior knowledge
of the ancient science of numbers. Nevertheless, once the correct tools are
applied, the text reveals the presence of very meaningful mathematical and
geometrical constructs. As Mr. Gann claimed, these do indeed include direct
references to a law of vibration. We shall explore St Matthew's text in Chapters
4 and 5, and then look at some of the implications in Chapter 12."

The anomaly in terms of Mr. Gann’s claims, however, is that “the sign of the
prophet” itself does not reveal either how the laws actually work or how they
should be applied. In other words, it is still necessary to know about the existence
—and operation — of the Law of Three and the Law of Seven prior to interpreting
St. Matthew's text. It is thus difficult to get away from the conclusion that the
Bible may not have been the only source of Mr. Gann’s insights. He almost
certainly obtained the initial knowledge from somewhere else.

Se. Matthew: Chapter 12, verses 38-40 “Then certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we
would sce a sign from thee. But he answered and said unto them: “An evil and adulterous generation secketh after
4 sign; and there shall no sign be given it, bur the sign of the prophet Jonas: For as Jonas was three days and nights
in the whale’s belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”

® Some of its implications remain beyond the understanding of this author.

--- PAGE 24 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

BEELZEBUB’S TALES

It is a fact that Tunnel has some remarkable parallels with a book, written by
George Ivanovitch Gurdjieff, entitled All and Everything: An Objectively
Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man, or Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson
(hereafter, Beelzebub’s Tales). This book is an allegorical novel that claims to
contain a body of sacred knowledge concerning the laws of the universe. The
book is difficult to read because its structure and language were carefully
designed to avoid loose interpretation. It has, in effect, to be translated.” But
one of the important disclosures contained in the book is the existence of the
Law of Three and the Law of Seven.

The differences in content between Tunnel and Beelzebub’s Tales could not —
literally! — be greater. Nevertheless, there are some significant parallels between
the two books. Mr. Gann and Mr. Gurdjieff both claim that their books contain
secrets that can only be accessed if they are read three times. Both authors
indicate that the first reading is essentially an ordinary process; both indicate
that the second reading should be approached as part of a learning process; and
both maintain that the secret will start to become apparent on the third reading.
Of course, the fact that both authors suggest that their book be read three times
may just be a coincidence, based on the desire to transmit the idea that the
number 3 itself is important.

What will also become apparent is that Tunnel and Beelzebub’ Tales both use
the same, very specific, technique to hide the particular pattern that is intrinsic
to the law of vibration/Law of Seven within their books. Once the code has been
broken, both books reveal the same pattern. Furthermore — and as a most
amazing confirmation — the pattern is the same as that contained within “the
sign of the prophet Jonas”.

A COMMON SOURCE

Although these parallels suggest that Mr. Gann may have obtained his
knowledge from Mr. Gurdjieff, such contact seems unlikely. Mr. Gann claimed
that he knew about a law of vibration in 1909. At that stage, Mr. Gurdjieff (who
was only about five years older than Mr. Gann) was living in Eastern Europe
and had not even made a known public appearance. Moreover, although Mr.

 Gurdjielf, Beeleebubs Tales.

» The earliest and most complete summary of Mr. Guedjieff’s work, written in an understandable form, is
contained in Pyotr D. Ouspensky, In Search of the Miraculous: Fragments of an Unknown Teaching (Harcourt, Brace
& World, New York, 1949).

* There are other parallels that are worth noting. Both books contain references to astrology ~ Tunnel explicitly and
Beelzebubs Tales implicitly. Both books use Roman numerals for chapter headings.

Colin Wilson, G. 1. Gurdjieff The War Against Sleep (The Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, 1986),

--- PAGE 25 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENIGMA OF WILLIAM D. GANN
CHAPTER 1

Gurdjieff started to write Beelzebub’s Tales in late 1924, it was not available to
the general public until 1950. Mr. Gann published Tinnel in 1927, so he could
not have read Mr. Gurdjieff’s finished book.»

This is by no means conclusive, but it does raise the possibility of the existence
of another — common ~ originating source, which would have pre-dated both
men. Mr. Gann was a highly-placed Freemason, which may have given him access
to information that was not otherwise generally availablesand Mr. Gurdjieff was
always quite clear that he had obtained his knowledge from elsewhere.:

The truth is that we'll probably never know precisely where the information
came from, how Mr. Gann obtained it, or why he ended up hiding it. But there
is no question that Mr. Gann and Mr. Gurdjieff were somehow on a parallel
path, and that their respective insights about the functioning of a law of
vibration emerged almost simultaneously.

More tellingly, both men chose to bury a particular aspect of their insights,
either as a challenge to their students or for future use. Tunnel and Beelzebubs
Tales both use the same specific method of transmitting vital information; both
hid the same particular pattern relating to natural cycles; and both accepted the
existence of cosmic laws that, in the 1920s, would have been regarded with
suspicion. The coincidences are far too meaningful to be totally ignored.

So, what are these cosmic laws, and how are they hidden in the Bible?

™ There are other points of potential contact, Ir is quite posible, for example, that Mr. Gann knew about Mr.
Gurdjieft’s teachings, and was attracted to them because of his interest in the law of vibration. There were lectures
— given by Alfred Orage and other high calibre followers of Mr, Gurdjieff — both in New York and London in the
early 1920s. Indeed, Mr Gutdjieff himself was in New York in 1924 and 1925-26. In addition, draft copies of what
eventually became the final text of Beeleebub’ Tales were also circulated amongst students for instruction and for
comment. Further, Mr. Gann's 1909 version of the law may not have been the same as the one that he subsequently
hid in Tunnel. The 1909 version of the law of vibration is described by him in very mechanistic terms. He argues
that “the law of vibration is the fundamental law upon which wireless telegraphy, wireless telephone and
photographs are based.” The Ticker and Investment Digest (December 1909). This indicates a focus on periodic
fluctuations rather than the variable pattern of fluctuations in living systems. At the time, periodic fluctuations were
riot thought to be applicable to stocks and commodities.

"Mr, Gann was a 32nd Degree Freemason of the Scottish Rite Order and itis highly likely thac this gave him access
to material that was considered to be secret, See David Keller (Ed.), Breakthroughs in Technical Analysis (Bloomberg
Press, New York, 2007). Me. Gann's contention that the Bible was the source of his knowledge could therefore have
been a defence against any criticism that he had broken his vows of secrecy. It is also possible that Mr. Gann received
the ideas relating to the law of vibration by accessing alternative states of consciousness. Mr. Gann’s unusual book
The Magic Word contains insteuctions for chanting the seven-letter word “Jehovah” in three separate syllables as part
of a prayer routine. If used over a sustained period of time, concentration on the thythmic word (or words) of a
‘mantra can suppress the brains tendency to generate random thoughts. This enables the meditator to access not just
alternative states of consciousness, but also (sometimes) alternative states of reality. The former has significant — and
known ~ benefits in terms of relaxation; the latter has benefits ~ albeit less well documented ~ in terms of knowledge.
Mr. Gann himself mentions his “many blessings by applying the Magic Word" in terms of “health, happiness and
prosperity”.

Ie is alleged that Mr. Gurdjieff’s teachings can be traced back ~ albeit somewhat subjectively ~ to very early
Christianity, in the first five centuries C.E, The knowledge is, for example, said to have been preserved by a group
known as the “Saurmong Brotherhood”. Unfortunately, the only evidence for the existence of this group appears to
be the body of teachings attributed to it. See, for example, Wilson, Gurdjief

--- PAGE 26 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 27 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 2

THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE
CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES

“T hold that the Bible contains the key to the process by which man may know
all there is to know of the future.”

W.D. Gann

THE NUMBER 666

In Chapter 13 of the Book of Revelation in the Christian Bible, there is an explicit
arithmetical number that has been the cause of much anguish, confusion and
academic debate. That number is 666.’

Misunderstandings have been caused by the fact that, despite the
groundbreaking work of Bligh Bond and Simcox Lea as long ago as 1917, very
few people are aware of the science of gematria that was used in the writing of
Holy Scriptures.’ Gematria is the technique of assigning specific numbers to
each letter of an alphabet, thereby allowing the calculation of the numerical
value of certain words. These numerical values give additional meaning to each
word, because they can be cross-referenced with other words.

A great deal of open-minded research still needs to be done on the subject, but
the evidence already suggests that the main purpose of gematria was essentially
twofold: first to give an harmonic structure to spiritual texts; and second, to

"Revelation, Chapter 13, verse 18.

Bligh Bond and Simcox Lea, Gematria (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1917). See also John Michell, City of Revelation.
On the Proportions and Symbolic Numbers of the Cosmic Temple (Garnstone Press Ltd., London, 1972). The word
™gematria” is derived from the Greek word yeouetptar, or “geometria”, meaning geometry.

--- PAGE 28 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

ensure that an additional — and higher — form of knowledge was transmitted
within those texts.

In the context of early versions of the Christian New Testament, the relevant
alphabet was Greek and the number assigned to each letter is shown in
Appendix 1. Quite obviously, all of the numeric wisdom contained in the
original Greek text was lost when it was translated into other languages. Hence
the phrase “let him who has understanding count (or calculate) the number of
the beast”, in Revelation, Chapter 13, Verse 18, will take on a totally different
meaning when it is realised that each of the letters in the Greek rendition of the
subsequent phrase carries a number from gematria.:

The request to “count” is obviously a literal one. This means that the number
appropriate to the infamous “beast” is not 666 at all, but something totally
different.» However, in the absence of the necessary key — that is, a knowledge
of gematria — the number 666 has come to be specifically, and incorrectly,
associated with the power of evil.

In fact, the number 666 was originally used by ancient authorities to denote a
particular type of energy — namely, the type of energy that is symbolised by the
sun. For example, the number 666 can be found in the specific matrix of
numbers that was traditionally associated with the sun. This matrix is one of a
family of matrices known as magic squares that are associated with the planets.’
Magic squares are so-called because each and every row, column and diagonal
in the square adds up to an identical number. This helps to confirm an
extraordinary, but definite, order underlying the structure of numbers. Hence,
in the sun Square, which is shown below in Figure 2-1, there are 6 rows and 6
columns; and each row, column or diagonal adds up to 111.

The second important feature of each magic square is that the sum of all the
numbers in the square creates a characteristic number for the square. Hence, in
the Sun Square, the sum of all the numbers (i.e. 1 to 36) creates the characteristic

Aland, New Tenament
‘The subsequent phrase reads: “for it is the number of a man and his number is six hundted thrcescore and six”
The Holy Bible (Authorised (King James), English Revised Version, 1881). Later versions of the Bible refer to the
number 666 as being “man's number” or “a human number”, rather than the number of a particular individual
“Interested readers are referred co John Michell’s The Dimensions of Paradise (Thames and Hudson, London, 1988)
for a full discussion of this point. The veracity of the number 666 ~ at least in this context ~ has, in any case, been
challenged. A possible alternative is 612. Sce Hugh Schonfield, The Original New Testament: A Radical
Reinterpretation and New Translation (Waterstone & Co, London, 1985)
See Jim Moran, The Wonders of Magic Squares (Vintage Books, New York, 1982). Hence
+ Saturn: 3 x 3 square: rows, columns, and diagonals sum to 15; characteristic number, 45; quotient, 3.
Jupiter: 4 x 4; 34; 136; 4
+ Mars: 5x 5; 65; 325: 5,
© Sun: 6 x 6; 111; 666; 6.
* Venus: 7 x 7; 175; 1225;
* Mercury: 8 x 8; 260; 2080; 8.
* Moon: 9 x 9; 369; 3321;

--- PAGE 29 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 2

number for the sun itself ~ namely, 666. This is the number that cross references
to the number 666 in Greek gematria.”

[6 |32] 3 [34] 35] 1 |
|7 | 11]27|28] 8 [30] »
19| 14) 16|15]23]24]
18|20] 22/24/17] 13]
25|29) 10| 9 |26| 12]
36] 5 [33] 4] 2 [34]

111 111 111 111 111 111 666

FIGURE 2-1: THE MAGIC SUN SQUARE

This relationship between magic squares and the science of gematria extends
the underlying order of numbers into the very structure of language and
therefore into the dimensions of communication and learning. Hence, the use
of the number 666 could either be taken by association to imply the'sun, or it
could be taken to mean those aspects of the archetypal energy represented by
che'aun; Inthe laceer. case, the appropriate accriburenswere hose of dynamism;
expansion and fertilisation — basically, actively creative energy. This, indeed, is
why the Book of Revelation calls the number 666 “the number of a man”: it is an
explicit reference to male energy.

The sun, therefore, was taken to represent the positive half of the polarity split
that characterises activity throughout the universe. The moon, meanwhile, was
taken to represent the other half — the negative half

Ic is important to recognise right here that these two polarities were understood
to represent complementary energies. They did not incorporate any value

Tr also crow references 0 the number 666 in Hebrew gematra, Its the value of "Sorath’, the Spirit of the sun, See
David Fideler, fous Christ, Sun of God: Ancient Cosmology and Early Christian Symbolism (Quest, Wheaton (Il.), 1993).
* There is no obvious direct relationship between the Sun Square and the Moon Square, except as part of the
progression through the hierarchy of planets

--- PAGE 30 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

judgements whatsoever, but were concepts that dealt with the ebb and flow of
change. Every movement in Nature was seen as consisting of a combination of
both types of energy. Where the positive energy dominated, a system would be
described as being active, expanding, growing, or moving. Where the negative
energy dominated, the system was seen as being passive, contracting, dying, or
standing still. The necessary coexistence of both types of energy meant — and
still means — that it was totally inappropriate and misleading to denote solar
energy and its corresponding attributes as being evil.

In fact, these concepts are now better understood by modern Western
philosophers, mainly because of the influence of Eastern thought. Hence, solar-
type activity corresponds to the yang of Chinese philosophy and to the rajasic
guna of Indian philosophy. The mathematical symbol of solar energy is therefore
a plus sign; its sex is male; its sphere of activity is mental; the character of its
activity is (broadly-speaking) logical and rational; its dynamic attributes are
expansion and penetration; its associated mineral is gold; and its arena is the
light. In Greek biblical texts the sum by gematria of the letters in words or
phrases having these attributes was 666. For example, the sum of the letters in
the Greek phrase meaning “the mind” or “reason” is 666."

THE NUMBER 1080

In contradistinction to the positive solar-type of energy stands the negative
lunar-type of energy. Activity here is understood to be receptive. It corresponds
to the yin of Chinese philosophy and the tamasic guna of Indian philosophy. Its
mathematical symbol is a minus sign; its sex is female; its sphere of activity is
emotional; the character of its activity is intuitive and non-rational; its dynamic
attributes are contraction and absorption; its associated mineral is silver; and its
arena is the dark.

Unlike the solar number, however, the lunar number is not explicit in the Christian
Scriptures. This, in fact, is one of the reasons why both numbers have been
misunderstood. Nevertheless, writers such as the late John Michell,» who spent
many years researching the subject, have concluded that biblical words and phrases
that have lunar attributes: yield a very precise number. That number is 1080.

7A guna is an energy attribute. Traditionally, there are three gunas: rajasic (active), tamasic (passive) and sattwic
(cquilibrating). See text.

© That is, N@pNV = 8+500+10048+50 = 666.

" Michell, City of Revelation. See also Michell, Dimensions of Paradise. Michell’s findings have provided the basis for
a new generation of research into the sacred doctrines hidden within the Scriprures. As a result, itis now possible
to trace the relationship berween early Christian gnostics and the teachings of the ancient mystery cults. See Fideler,
Jesus Christ.

" Although not the word “moon” itself. The Greek equivalent is o€Anvn, which has a gematrian value of 301

--- PAGE 31 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 2

‘The importance of this number is highlighted by the fact that it is — very
specifically — the number by gematria of the Greek phrase To aytov
Tveupia, meaning “the Holy Spirit”. Furthermore, it is the calculated number for
the Greek rendering of such well-known phrases as the “Fountain of Wisdom”,
and the “Abyss”. It seems more than just a coincidence that the radius of the moon
itself is just over 1080 miles« and that the atomic weight of silver is 108.0.

Although very important, most of this might seem basically irrelevant to the
subject matter in hand. However, it is not. There is a very significant relationship
between the solar number, 666, and the lunar number, 1080. If the former
ivided by the latter, then the resulting ratio between them is 0.62:1.

number is

That is:

666 / 1080 = 0.62

Alternatively, the ratio between the two numbers can be shown the other way
around, so that:

1080 / 666 = 1.62

Philosophically, the ratios 0.62:1 and 1.62:1 are regarded as being
interchangeable: either can be denoted by the 21st letter of the Greek alphabet
¢ (= phi), and both are called the Golden Ratio.

THE GOLDEN RATIO

The Golden Ratio — more accurately defined as 0.618:1 or its inverse 1.618:1
~ is an extraordinary phenomenon. Its presence in Nature is now very well
attested: it can be found both in natural structures® (such as the human body)
and in natural processes (such as growth spirals). The presence of the Ratio in
the Bible suggests that it has long been understood as being sacred. Certainly it
seems, in some mysterious way, to be a part of Nature's b/ueprint with respect
to space and time.

The starting point for any analysis of the Golden Ratio is the fact that it is the
only ratio that will divide a straight line in such a way that the ratio of the smaller
part to the larger part is exactly equal to the ratio of the larger part to the whole.

“That is, To ayiov Mveusa = 3004 70+ 1434 10+ 70+ 50+ 80+ 50+ 5+ 400 +4041 = 1080,

“The equatorial radius of the moon is 1,086.3 miles. The English mile is thus a cruly “natural” measure. The
purposes and wisdom relating to such measures are, of course, becoming lost to us as we embrace the apparently
‘easier method of measurement using metres and kilometres. This is a point well made by John Michell, The New
View Over Adantis (Thames and Hudson, London, 1983).

* See, for example, Livio, Golden Rati.

° Ibid.

15

--- PAGE 32 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Hence, in the following diagram (Figure 2-2):

BC / AB = AB/ AC =0.618

a
A B Cc

FIGURE 2-2: THE GOLDEN RATIO.

The importance of the diagram is that it uses a Golden Measure that expresses
three concepts simultaneously:

1. The Measure is a number, albeit an irrational one, (i.e. 0.618);
2. It isa ratio between two numbers (i.e. 0.618:1); and

3. Itis a continuous proportion between three numbers (represented by the
lengths AC, AB and BC in Figure 2).

The Golden Measure therefore simultaneously expresses the ideas of unity
(number), duality (ratio) and trinity (proportion). Hence, it can be called the
Golden Number, the Golden Ratio or the Golden Proportion.

The equivalency between the two ratios BC:AB and AB:AC means that the
three values AB, BC and AC always bear the same relationship to one another.
However, AC is equal to the sum of AB and BC. Hence the equation defining
the Golden Proportion expresses the relationship between three terms by the
relationship between two of those terms. In other words, if:

BC is to AB as AB is to AC

and if:
AC =AB+BC
then:

AB / (AB + BC) = BC/ AB = 0.618

Ancient theological authorities considered these aspects of the Golden Measure
to be very significant.” Indeed, they considered that the Measure directly
reflected the essential nature of God, or The Source of All Things. For this

7 See Robert Lawlor, Sacred Geometry: Philosophy and Practice (Thames and Hudson, London, 1982). In addition
to the spatial relationship defining @ (as shown in Figure 2-2), there is another aspect to $ which is important. This
is the uniqueness of the equation:

--- PAGE 33 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 2

reason, and because it could be found at all levels of Nature, it was also known
as The Divine Proportion. Hence, in analysing the Golden Measure, it is
important that we understand the veneration with which it was treated.
Otherwise, we run the danger of missing its essential function.

Implications of the Golden Ratio

First, since the larger of the elements in the above equations is equal to the sum
of the other two elements, the Golden Ratio was considered to be an expression
of the way that The One divided itself into Tivo. Second, because the proportion
between the ratios was constant, the Golden Proportion was considered to be
an expression of the way that change could occur without involving chaos. The
Golden Measure was therefore taken to mirror the presumed relationship
between God and the phenomenal world, because it embodied the reconciliation
between Unity and Duality — that is, between The Whole and Its Parts.

The logic behind this conclusion is very revealing, In the first place, and as has
already been observed, duality is an intrinsic feature of life. All movement is
defined in terms of an oscillation between two opposite polarities. Implicit in
the idea of oscillation, however, is the related concept of diff>rences. Differences
convey information to an observer and therefore provide the basis for a
response." Without differences between structures, and between states of being,
there would be nothing to perceive, nothing to respond to, and therefore no
movement or evolution.

From this it follows that any mathematical symbol that was to be taken by
Christian philosophers as reflecting the primary division of God into two parts
had to incorporate the idea of active difference — i.e. something other than a
fifty/fifty split. On the one hand, just dividing something into two halves means
the creation of two identical parts. This in turn means that there would be no
differences to trigger a reaction from a system. On the other hand, therefore,
bisecting something along the lines of the Golden Ratio incorporates the idea
not only of duality but also of the presence of genuine information.

In the second place, harmony between structures, and between different states
of being, is essential to the preservation of life through both time and space.
Without harmony, there would be chaos and destruction, and (except for very
briefly, perhaps) there would be no existence. Ancient authorities saw harmony

V+ (ox V6) = Vox ($x 174)
which is equivalent to:

Vo+ (Voy = Vb x (Vor
The resulting value is 4.236, which is (1/¢). This is the only equation where a summation involving two terms (i.e.
Vopand (1/6) is identical to the value obtained from the multiplication of the same two terms,
" See Gregory Bateson, Mind and Nature —An Exential Unity (Wildwood House, London, 1979). In the phenomenal
world, activity is generated by information, Bateson defines information as “differences which make a difference”

7

--- PAGE 34 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

as being a result of proportion, so that movement in one area would be
responded to by a movement in another area: the parts would adjust, and the
whole would reflect this adjustment. The application of the Golden Proportion
to the cosmology of Being implicitly allows for co-dependent adjustment
throughout a system so that any potential conflict between the parts is effectively
contained.

This is a profound conclusion and, among other things, involves two clear
insights into the nature of life on Earth. First, it implies that apparently
destructive forces among the parts of Nature actually only have a very limited
potential to destroy the whole of Nature. Second, this in turn suggests the explicit
operation of a harmonising, or equilibrating, force. In fact, and as we shall see
in Chapter 3, the Golden Ratio provides direct information relating to this
equilibrating force and also provides indirect information relating to the very
structure of Creation itself.

18

--- PAGE 35 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 3
THE LAW OF THREE

“In every law of nature there is a major and a minor; a positive, a negative
and a neutral.

W. D. Gann

“Every action, every phenomenon in all worlds without exception, is the result
of the simultaneous action of three forces — the positive, the negative, and the
neutralising.”

PD. Ouspensky

THREE CREATIVE FORCES

The use of the Golden Ratio by early Christian writers implies a deep
understanding of the cosmological forces operating within the universe.
Specifically, the use of the number 666 to denote mental energy with active
attributes, and the use of the number 1080 to denote spiritual energy with
passive (or receptive) attributes, suggests an understanding of the universe as an
interplay of opposing, but nevertheless complementary, forces.

However, harmony requires some method of reconciling these opposing forces.
It is not sufficient to look just at the influence of the positive and negative energy
polarities. There has to be a third force that resolves their differences. In Eastern
philosophy, the existence of this third force has always been accepted. In Chinese
thought, for example, it is recognised as an aspect of The Tao, while in India it
is more clearly identified as the sattwic guna.’

"The sattwic guna is regarded as being of the same hierarchical order as the tamasic and rajasic gunas,

19

--- PAGE 36 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In fact, the third force — and the Law of Three — can be inferred from the Golden
Ratio. According to the formulation of the Golden Ratio, two terms can be used
to define the relationship between three terms. Hence, it follows that the third
term can be deduced from the first two. The implication is that a combination
of the dual forces of spiritual and mental energies contributes to a greater whole.
The number of this greater whole, by deduction is 1746 (i.e. 1080 + 666). John
Michell called this the “number of fusion”: In this arrangement, it follows that:

1080 / 1746 = 666 / 1080 = 0.62

The Golden Ratio is thus consistent with the presence of the three creative forces
recognised by general religious tradition — namely, spiritual energy, mental
energy, and a combination of both that constitutes a Whole or Unity. According
to this tradition, Spirit is the receptive matrix of all possibilities, Creative Mind
is its generative counterpart that produces specific dynamic processes from
within the matrix of spiritual potential, and the combined force of Spirit and
Mind is both the resu/t of the Whole and the cause of the Whole. This, i
argued, is the Mystery of Creation.

can be

The mystery of the third force

The difficulty, of course, is that — being a mystery — the presence of the third
energy is impossible to prove through discursive thought, since the result is
always a paradox.: In the West, therefore, the attitude towards the existence of
a third force, or energy, is somewhat ambivalent. Christianity clearly views the
source of harmony as being God, but cannot be definitive about the operation
of harmony because of a hostile attitude towards the forces of dissolution that
are contained within Nature.

On the other hand, Western scientific authorities explicitly recognise the
operation of the laws of creation*and dissolution — unchanging laws of Nature
— but do not, generally (or necessarily), accept the role of a higher power in
these laws. They do not therefore explicitly accept the role of a third force.

Philosophically, of course, it is not possible (at a level) to distinguish between
the concept of God and the idea of unchanging laws of Nature. If God is

"The number 1746 is, by gemattia, the value of a grain of mustard seed, which is mentioned in St. Matthews Gospel
(Chapter 13, verse 31). Ie is also the value of the phrase the ‘Same and the Other’ used by Plato to denote opposite
polarities; and of the Greek for ‘Father, Son, Spirit’. See Michell, Dimensions of Paradise,

» The relationship between Spirit and Mind thus parallels the implications of Schrodinger’s wave equation in the New
Physics. An infinite profusion of possibilities is actualised into a specific ourcome by mental perception. See, for example,
Gary Zukav, The Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics (William Morrow, New York, 1979),

* The application of mental reasoning to the phenomenon of God results in the paradox of opposite truths ~
namely, God is both immanent and transcendent, is both part and whole, and is both devolution and evolution. The
problem is that mental reasoning can only relate to, experience, and understand levels of consciousness that are at
the same or lower levels than itself. It can therefore understand mind and matter, but it cannot experience spirit.

20

--- PAGE 37 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF THREE
CHAPTER 3

expressed in terms of the operation of unchanging and universal laws, there will
inevitably be a point where scientific endeavour actually becomes impotent: it
becomes impossible to reduce the laws any further and we can only point to the
fact that certain laws exist in the first place.

Whatever one’s attitude to the concept of God, it seems logical to conclude that,
without some form of a third force that generates, maintains, and participates
in the coherence of the universe, nothing that exists could exist. So, if the
existence of this force is accepted as a working hypothesis, then we can look at
the phenomenon of the three forces — active, passive and reconciling — from
two perspectives. First, we can see it horizontally, in terms of the diagram shown
in Figure 2-2, and reproduced as Figure 3-1.

Third force

Receptive Generative

FIGURE 3-1: THE GOLDEN RATIO EXPRESSED IN TERMS OF THE THREE FORCES

In this format, the third force contains the other two energies. Its wholistic
authority embraces both the active force of generative change and the passive
force of fertile and receptive potential. It would therefore embrace, reflect, and
stimulate the other two forces: actively, it would ensure that vibration and
change exist in the first place; passively, it would ensure that the resulting
perturbations are subject to compensatory adjustments. In short, it would ensure
harmony. On this hypothesis, it is difficult to miss the idea that the third force
would be a specific attribute of the conscious energy field that humankind has
traditionally called The Creator.

‘Selence ~ particularly in the area of quantum physics ~ is getting closer and closer to incorporating the concept of
an overarching self-organising force. On this, and many related aspects of the search for an integral ‘theory of,
everything’, sce Ervin Laszlo, Science and the Re-enchantment of the Cosmos: The Rise of the Integral Vision of Reality
(Inner Traditions, Rochester (Vt.), USA, 2006).

©Since the third force cannot allow total chaos, all living organisms respond to its imperative to merge with greater
wholes. The third force thus provides both the basic impulse to coexist and the impulse to evolve. See Ken Wilber,
Up from Eden: A Transpersonal View of Human Evolution (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1983),

The active and passive forces would also be fundamental aspects of The Creator. There are, therefore, three distinct
conclusions that could be drawn, First, the universe is actualised from fertile Spirit by generative Mind. Second, the
universe necessarily contains opposing energy forces. Third, if the two energies remain in a constant relationship to
the Source from which they arise, then the Source itself would likely retain an influence during the process of creation.

a1

--- PAGE 38 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Hierarchical order

The second way in which the triad of energies contained in the Golden Ratio
can be viewed is vertically. This approach accepts that, although the whole is
bounded by the third force, the structure of that whole is in some way
hierarchical. This idea of a hierarchy of power was reflected in the ancient
hermetic formula: “as above, so below”. Whatever takes place at one level of
being will also occur in some form at another (lower) level of being.

However, this phenomenon is only possible if each level of being is in some way
a stepped-down version of the level above it. There would be an analogue law
that would traniamit changes down through the hierarchy of being: Imporntly,
this principle would necessarily guarantee the existence of harmony within the
whole; and the Golden Measure is, in fact, a perfect representation of this
haimony

This certainly appears to have been the attitude of the early Christian
philosophers. First, the way that the number series 1746, 1080, 666 reduces in
size is suggestive of a hierarchical structure to the triad of energies implicit in
their concept of God.» Second, the critical mediating role of the force
represented by the number 1080 is implicit in the fact that the number 1080 is
the geometric mean of the numbers 1746 and 666." According to Plato and
Pythagoras, a geometric mean was not only the product of two extremes but it
also reconciled the two extremes. It thereby produced harmony. Third, harmony
is produced from proportion — i.e. from equivalency between ratios. In this case,
the ratio is not just any old ratio, it is specifically the Golden Ratio and, if each
level is a stepped-down version of the level above it, then each level would
maintain a constant relationship to the level above and below it.:

The question that arises from this presentation is: what would be the nature of
each of the forces represented by the three numbers 1746, 1080 and 666 when
they are placed in a vertical framework? In principle, they should correspond to

See Ken Wilber, “Reflections on the New-Age Paradignt in Ken Wilber (Ed), The Holographic Paradigm
(Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1985). Ic is important to recognise that the flow of authority is essentially downwards.
Creativity at the highest levels is reflected in some degree of flexibility (or randomness) at the lower levels. But
apparent randomness at the lower levels does not mean that the highest levels are therefore themselves random, This
downward flow of authority also means that the lower levels are unlikely to recognise the purposes of the higher and
are likely therefore to regard change only in their own context.

» See Lawlor, Sacred Geometry. Indeed, traditional esoteric teachings in most of the world’s main religions (e.g.
Christian mysticism, Sufism, Hinduism, Buddhism) argue that the universe was created by a progressive reduction
in spiritual vibrations.

© This presentation would not mean that there are three Gods, only that there are thrce ‘dimensions’, or aspects, 0
God. Christianity sees the three dimensions as being ‘consubstantial’ ~ ic. of the same essence.

" Thar is, 1080 = (1746 x 666). The number 1080 thus mediates between the two extremes.

* As if to confirm this analysis, the process of summing the digits in each of the numbers 1746, 1080 and 666
reduces them all to the number 9. This latter number was always associated with initiation and completion. Hence,
14744+6=14+8=9%14+04+8+0=9%and6+6+6=1+8=9.

22

--- PAGE 39 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF THREE
CHAPTER 3

the three primary divisions (or gradations) of Being that are recognised by most
religious traditions — namely, The Source, the First Emanation from The Source

(i.e. Spirit) and the Realm of Time (i.e. Creative Mind).

Iris quite clear from John Michell’s work on gematria that this was, indeed, the
intended implication.» The number 1080 is the intermediate term between 1746
and 666, and the Holy Spirit can thus be seen as the dynamic linkage between
what is Above and what is Below. In other words, ancient authorities were able
to visualise the Holy Spirit as being the vehicle that transmitted the powers of
the Creator throughout the universe. Spirit became Creative Mind, animated

by Itself.

NATURE’S LAWS

This use of the three numbers 1746, 1080 and 666 thus helps to explain why
the Golden Ratio was known as the Divine Proportion. Nevertheless, attempting
to unravel the insights of the early Christian writers about the Golden Ratio is
not necessarily the same thing as saying that their conclusions were correct.
Indeed, for many in this scientific age, the operation of the equilibrating powers
of God through the agency of Spirit is an intellectually unsatisfying explanation
for the intrinsic harmony of Life.

The fact remains, however, that life on Earth does appear to be bounded by
certain inviolable laws that synchronistically incorporate fluctuation and
harmony. We may not yet fully understand why this should be so but, at the very
least, we can usefully acknowledge that these laws are built upon three forces that
can be defined respectively as active, passive, and reconciling. Taken together,
these forces constitute what George Gurdjieff called “the Law of Three”.

As will become increasingly apparent, the Law of Three expresses itself in various
ways in life on this Earth, and it is central to the evolution of natural cycles.

The Greck texts of the New Testaments were written before the First Council of Nicea (which sat in 325 C.E,)
Ik is possible chat this Council ~ which established subsequent Christian orthodox teaching concerning the Trinity
~ knew that the scriptures themselves could not be altered and so suppressed the idea that gematria in the texts
carried deeper meanings.

“The three numbers therefore provide a very clear exposition of early understandings about the Trinity. The
number 1746 would have corresponded to The Father, 1080 would have referred to The Holy Spirit and 666 would
have implied The Son. On the face of it, this is an awkward conclusion because the history of 666 means that, for
many Christians, the number is almost irrevocably equated with the power of evil. The critical point, however, is
that the numbers 1746, 1080 and 666 relate to the cosmogony of Being, Under this schema, there is no implied
relationship between any particular individual and the Source. Difficulties of interpretation arise because Christian
theology equates The Son to Jesus Christ and thus blurs the distinction between the different concepts of “the Son
of man” (see Chapter 4, and note 13), “the Son of God” (ie. Christ) and “The Son” (ie. Creation), Furthermore,
the number 666 references the stepped-down version of what the ancients thought of as being The Holy Spirit, and
thus means the created world of time and space.

“Ouspensky, Jn Search,

23

--- PAGE 40 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

This was why Mr. Gann found it so important. However, before looking at the
law in more depth, we need to delve a little further into the Christian scriptures
in order to shed light on Mr. Gann’s extraordinary claim that a certain passage
in the Bible embodies hidden information that is directly applicable to a law of
vibration — and, by inference, to collective human behaviour.”

It turns out that the passage in question contains a number of layers of meaning
and that the significance of the final revelation is enhanced by the genius of the
structure on which it is built.

* Gann, Tionel,

24

--- PAGE 41 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 4

THE SIGN OF THE
PROPHET JONAS

“L believe that that is the key to the interpretation of the future.”
W.D. Gann

ST MATTHEW’S GOSPEL

It has been shown that the Bible contains hidden information in the form of
symbolic numbers and that these numbers contain references to the energy of a
third force encapsulated within the Golden Ratio. The task now is to follow the
lead provided by William Gann and analyse certain specific references that he
made to the Bible. In so doing it will be possible to reveal not only the
extraordinary nature of the Bible itself, but also the remarkable perceptions of
those who were involved in producing it. Some of the resulting information is
beyond current scientific understanding.

‘As was mentioned in Chapter 1, in Tienmel Mr. Gann — in the guise of Robert
Gordon’ — was quite specific in declaring that he had the key to the
interpretation of the future. He argues that the key can be found in Chapter 12
of St. Matthew's Gospel, verses 38-40, under “the sign of the prophet Jonas”.:
The original Greek text is shown in Appendix 2. The text, as translated by Mr.
Gann, reads:

"Gann, Tunnel
“The same “sign’ is teferted to a second time in St. Matthew, Chapter 16, verses 1-4. The reason for this is not clear
The repetition may be designed co highlight its importance

--- PAGE 42 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Then some scribes and Pharisees said to him, “Teacher, we wish to see a
sign from you.” But he answered them:

“An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign; but no sign shall be
given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonas. For as Jonas was three
days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so shall the Son of man
be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”

It was shown in Chapter 2 that examining a biblical text in terms of gematria can
yield some astonishing insights into the hidden meanings and purposes of the text.
The obscure nature of “the sign of the prophet Jonas” certainly suggests that it might
contain hidden dimensions based on gematria. This possibility can now be explored
in some detail. By demonstrating the integrity and credibility of St. Matthew's text,
it is also possible to establish the authority of the eventual revelations.

“JONAH” OR “JONAS”

The first point to make is that, in gematria, not only is every letter important, but
also the words and sentences need to be seen in terms of logical clusters. Extra
information is carried by the mathematical relationships between specific phrases.

The second point to make is that there is something very significant about the
original Greek text from which the above translation is derived. This is that the
name of the individual being referenced actually changes between verse 39 and
verse 40. In the original Greek, verse 39 concludes:

TO Onelov = tavar Tou mpopntou
the sign Jonah ofthe prophet

While the beginning of verse 40 includes the phrase:

lavac ev Tm  KkolAla = =Tou — KNTOUG
Jonas in the belly ofthe — whale

In other words, the name changes from Jonah to Jonas.

In practice, most translators use either Jonah or Jonas in both places in the text
without explicitly acknowledging that there is a difference: the Nestle-Aland
Greek-English New Testament, for example, uses “Jonah” in its translation; while
Mr. Gann himself uses “Jonas”. In terms of gematria, however, such differences
are usually of critical importance. So, the question is: why does the difference
exist in the first place? There are at least three answers.

"Aland, New Testament,

26

--- PAGE 43 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

First, there is always the possibility that a mistake was made during the process
of hand-copying the original Greek texts and then translating them. Second,
the name could have been changed on purpose to divert attention from the
esoteric nature of “the sign of the prophet”. Finally, if the original text is held as
being strictly accurate, then the distinction between [ava and Iavac could
be a clue to breaking an underlying code.:

The value of “c”

le is therefore wilikely to be’ ain accident iat, in’ Tanned, Mr Gani explicitly
contrasts the names “Jonah” and “Jonas”. Mr Gann has Robert Gordon state
that he has “read the book of Jonah thru very carefully, and [has understood]
what the Saviour meant when he said: ‘No sign shall be given, but the sign of
the prophet Jonas.”” Mr Gann thus differentiates between “Jonah” (from the
book of Jonah) and the prophet “Jonas” (in verse 39 of St. Matthew's text). The
direct inference is that Mr. Gann believed that it was necessary to include the
Greek letter “¢” in the phrase “the sign of the prophet Jonas”.

Whatever the original reason for the letter “” being excluded from verse 39,
the results both of allowing the difference, and of then including (or re-
including) it in the “sign of the prophet”, are extraordinary: on the one hand,
allowing the difference has the same effect as inserting — and turning — a key in
a lock and opening a door onto a hidden world; on the other hand, using
“Ieovac” instead of “/aava” in “the sign of the prophet Jonas” offers a potential
revelation about the nature of Time.

The reason that the letter “¢” is so important is that it has a gematrian value of
200; and this has — to put it mildly — a dramatic effect on the analysis. First, the
symbolic value of la2vac is 1061 (i.e. 10 + 800 + 50 + 1 + 200). Second, the
symbolic value of the “sign of the prophet” increases from 3912 in the case of
“Jonah” to 4112 in the case of “Jonas”. That is:

the sign Jonas of the prophet
To = onpieiov — leavac Tou — mpopntou
370 383 1061 770 1528 = 4112

As will be shown in Chapter 5, the number 1061 is at the very centre of a
remarkable and important section of sacred geometry in the ancient world, while
the number 4112 progresses the analysis into the modern world.

TAn Important consideration here is that the wo names nced not refer to the same individual. In the absence of a
knowledge of gematria, it would be logical to presume that the Jonas in the whale’s belly is also the same as the
prophet Jonah. However, in gematria, such a logical presumption might actually distort the intended message

27

--- PAGE 44 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

SIGNIFICANT PHRASEOLOGY

Looking at the full text of verses 39 and 40 in Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's
Gospel, it is quite obvious that the phrases “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” have a resonance with one another.
In both phrases, important individuals are placed symbolically within
identifiable constructs. Once account is taken of the joint use of the phrase
“three days and three nights”, it is apparent that sentient beings (who?) are being
placed in a particular place (where?) in the context of time (for how long?). The
relationships between the two phrases are obviously going to be important.

By gematria, the numerical value of the phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale”

is 3333. That is:

Jonas in the belly ofthe whale
lavac ev ™ kota Tou — kITOUG
1061 55 308 141 770 998 = 3333

Meanwhile the numerical value of the phrase “the Son of man in the heart of

the earth” is 4248. That is:
the Son of (the) — man in the heart ofthe earth
o uvl0oc Tou avOpamou ev tm Kapdia tHE yne
70 680 770 1510 55 308 136 508 211 =4248
Finally, it can be seen that these two phrases (and hence the numbers 3333 and
4248) are directly linked to each other, not only by the harmonic construction
of the text, but also by the phrase “three days and three nights”. That is, the text

explicitly incorporates the passage of time (i.e. “for how long”). By gematria,
this third phrase has a numerical value of 2586. That is:

three days and three nights
TpEIG = TNMEPAG ka TPEIG = VUKTAG
615 354 31 615 971 = 2586

CONNECTIONS TO GEOMETRY

‘We now need to analyse the connections that are implicit in these three pieces
of text. Initially, however, let us concentrate on the “who” and “where” aspects.
The first important relationship concerns the name “Jonas” and the associated
phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale”. It turns out that the number for “Jonas”
(ie. 1061) is related to the number of the total phrase (ie. 3333) by the
irrational number 3.1416.

28

--- PAGE 45 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

That is, rounded to the nearest whole number:

1061 x 3.1416 = 3333

The number 3.1416 is, of course, well known. It is usually referred to as 1 (=
pi) and is crucial to the calculation of various aspects of a circle. Hence, the
situation is quite clear: we are dealing with the formula for the circumference
of a circle whose diameter is 1061 units. See Figure 4-1.

FIGURE 4-1: JONAS IN THE BELLY OF THE WHALE

This relationship between the numeric value of words and important geometric
constructs is no coincidence. The word “gematria” derives from the Greek word
YecouleTpIa meaning “geometry”, or “measuring the earth”, and the Greek
philosophers readily accepted that natural numbers and natural structures were
intimately related. It should, therefore, come as no surprise to find this close
relationship expressed in the Greek texts of the Christian Gospels.

The second important relationship concerns the connection between the phrase
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” and the name “Jonas”. It turns out that
the number 4248 is also related to the number 1061. The relevant equation is:

4248 = 1062 x 4

Following the same idea as that for the circle, we can deduce that we are dealing
with the formula for the perimeter of a square whose sides are 1062 units in
length. See Figure 4-2.

"There is some debate about how accurately could be calculated 2000 years ago. The evidence is that it could be
calculated very accurately.

29

--- PAGE 46 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Perimeter = 4248

FIGURE 4-2: THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH

The question now is whether or not the one unit difference between 1061 and
1062 is important. In fact, the answer is no. As already mentioned, the prime
function of gematria was to indicate relationships between words and expressions,
in order to draw out hidden associations and symbolic meanings. If, for example,
the numbers for two different words are identical, then it indicates an important
relationship between those words that would warrant further analysis.
Obviously, however, the nature of language and number requires some degree
of flexibility in establishing these relationships. Flexibility was achieved by
allowing one unit to be added or subtracted from the numeric value of a word
without altering its symbolic meaning. This extra unit was known as a colel.

Allowing for the flexibility provided by the colel, therefore, we can deduce that
the phrase “the Son of man in the heart of the earth” can be seen a symbolic
reference to a square whose sides are 1061 units in length.

THE CIRCLE AND THE SQUARE

The fact that the circle of Jonas and the square of the Son of man are both based
on the number 1061 suggests that they should be constructed together. There
are two ways in which this can be done. The first way is to make the square
embrace the circle. See Figure 4-3. This
“squaring the circle”.

, in fact, one version of the concept of

7 The other two versions, which are usually regarded as Deing more important, ar: drawing the square with the same
area as the circle; and drawing the square with the same perimeter as the citcle, The process symbolically matches the
evolution of consciousness: the physical world (the square) becomes equivalent to the spiritual world (the circle)

30

--- PAGE 47 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

FIGURE 4-3; THE SQUARE EMBRACING THE CIRCLE

The alternative method of integrating the two diagrams is to use the diameter
of the circle as the top edge of the square. See Figure 4—4. The diagram in Figure
4-4 is one of the ancient representations of the relationship between the spiritual
world and the physical world.

FIGURE 4-4: THE SPIRITUAL WORLD AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD.

--- PAGE 48 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In ancient cosmology, heaven was represented as a circle and the earth was always
represented as a square.’ Indeed, in St. Matthews text, Jesus refers directly to
“the earth”.

Hence, in the diagram, the spiritual realm penetrates the physical realm. Note,
however, that the penetration is only halfway. In other words, the physical realm is
not completely synchronised with the spiritual realm. This is consistent with Jesus
reference to “an evil and unfaithful generation” — if consciousness was sufficiently
evolved, the sign would have been a squared circle similar to that in Figure 4-3.

THE HEART OF THE EARTH

At this point, there is a specific question that needs to be answered: what exactly
is meant by “the Son of man” being “in the heart of the earth”? It may be
remembered that the name “Jonas” implicated the diameter of the circle. It
would therefore be logical to conclude that “the Son of man” should somehow
refer to the width of the square. And this is, indeed, the case — although the
reference is more subtle than in the case of “Jonas” because the reference is to
the diagonal width. The formula for the diagonal width of a square is given as:

2 x horizontal width

So, in this case, the diagonal of a square whose horizontal width is 1061 is:

1.414 x 1061 = 1500

This is shown in Figure 4-5.

L901

No

1061

FIGURE 4-5: THE DIAGONAL OF A SQUARE

7 This is one of the meanings behind the phrase: “the four corners of the earth”

32

--- PAGE 49 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

On the face of it, this bears no relationship to the phrase “the Son of
man’, whose value by gematria is 3030:

the Son of (the) man
° uloc Tou av6partrou

However, if the width of the square is divided, rather than multiplied, by V2,
the result is 750. That is:

1061 / 1.414 = 750

This is equivalent to ha/fof the length of the diagonal of the square. It thereby
references the point at the very centre of the square — the “heart of the earth” —
where the diagonals intersect. It is also relevant that, in St. Matthew's Gospel,
Jesus appears to refer to himself simply as 0 los (i.e. “the Son”): and the
numeric value of this title is 750. These concepts can be placed together in
Figure 4-6 so that “the Son (of man)” is “in the heart of the earth”.

1061

FIGURE 4-6; THE SON (OF MAN) IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH

Hence, Figures 4-3 and 4-4 can be amended to include this idea. This is done
in Figures 4-7 and 4-8. In the former, “Jonas” (i.e. 1061 as the diameter of the
circle) intersects “the Son” (750, as half the diagonal of the square) in the “heart
of the earth” (the centre of the square). So, the diameter of the circle bisects the
square. In Figure 4-8, on the other hand, “the Son” in “the heart of the earth”
is intersected by the locus of Jonas's circle.

"For example, St. Matthew, Chapter 11, verse 27,

33

--- PAGE 50 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

1061

is,

FIGURE 4-7: DIAMETER OF THE CIRCLE BISECTING THE SQUARE

FIGURE 4-8: THE CIRCLE OF JONAS INTERSECTING THE SON IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH

As the analysis stands, there is no way of knowing for certain which of the two
diagrams in Figures 4-7 and 4-8 was actually the one that was intended by St
Matthew's text. In addition, it can be noted that, although there is a reference in

--- PAGE 51 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

the diagrams to “the heart of the earth” as being the location for the “Son of man’,
there is no comparable reference to “the belly of the whale” for “Jonas” to occupy.

The reason, it turns out, is that neither of the diagrams takes account of time. It
will be remembered that the two phrases “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” were linked by a third phrase, namely
“three days and three nights”. The symbolic value of the latter is 2586. If we now
add this number to each of the numbers 3333 and 4248, the results are as follows:

“Jonas in the belly of the whale three days and three nights” = 5919
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth three days and three nights” = 6834

The conclusions to be drawn from these two numbers are simply extraordinary.
The relationship between them hinges on the fact that:

5919 / V3 = 6834/2
such that:
5919 / 6834 = V3 /2=0.866/1

The ratio 0.866:1 is central to an ancient diagram known as the vesica piscis, or
the “vessel of the fish”.

THE VESSEL OF THE FISH

The vesica is the geometric area that is shared by two circles of equal diameter,
where the centre of each circle is located on the circumference of the other. This
common area looks very much like the outline of a fish. Hence, in Figure 4-9, a
diagram is constructed from a pair of interlocking circles, each with a diameter of
6834 (i.e. the symbolic equivalent of “the Son of man in the heart of the earth three
days and three nights”). Because the horizontal length of the resulting common
area is 0.866 of 6834, the length of the vesica can be no other number than 5919.

In other words, the phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale three days and three
nights” in St. Matthew's text literally refers to the horizontal width of a geometric
symbol known as the “vessel of the fish”. We have a direct visual representation
of Jonas’s location.

The vesica piscis is well known to Christianity, being identified with the man
called Jesus. The reason usually put forward for this relationship is that the first
two letters of the Greek word for “fish” (i.e. YX8us) correspond to the initials of
the Greek for Jesus Christ (ie. Ioous Xpiotos).» However, in 1969 Giorgio
de Santallina and Hertha von Dechend brought attention to the historical

7 More completely, the initials can be ken as an acronym representing the Greek for "Jesus Christ, Son of God, Saviour™

35

--- PAGE 52 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

relationship between astrological ages and mythological symbolism.” Other
researchers subsequently added more evidence."

6834

6834

FIGURE 4-9: THE VESSEL OF THE FISH

Ic seems thar, in the ancient world, it was customary to relate the zodiacal sign
fora particularastrological age w aepecific symbolic representation of God,
Hence, for example, during the Age of Taurus (i.e. 4000 to 2000 B.C.) the
Egyptians of the Old Kingdom employed the symbol of the Sacred Bull of the
Heavens (named Apis), and during the Age of Aries (i.e. 2000 to 1 B.C.) the
Egyptians of the New Kingdom used the symbol of the ram.” We are currently
in the astrological Age of Pisces (by convention, 0 C.E. to date), represented by

® Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Dechend, Hamlett Mill: An Exuay on Myth and the Frame of Time (Gambit,
Boston, 1969). Astrological ages occur because of the phenomenon of she precession of the equinoxzs, caused by the
Earth's wobble. The spring rising point of the sun moves backwards through the Zodiac, changing sign
approximately every 2160 years. There is, however, a great deal of disagreement about the start and end dates of the
various Ages, partly due to the fact that stars in some of the constellations overlap. The Age of Pisces may have
started anytime between 1 A.D. and 500 A.D., and could end anytime between 2062 A.D. and 2720 A.D.

" See, for example, David Ulansey, The Origins of the Mithraic Mysteries (Oxford University Press, London, 1989).
© This raises the question of when ancient societies knew about the prevession of the equinoxes and how they
discovered it. There is evidence that knowledge of the phenomenon is at least 4000 years old. In the transition from
the Age of Taurus to the Age of Aries, for example, the artwork oriented, frst, co killing the bull (at the end of the
Age of Taurus) and, then, progressed to such activities as searching for the ram's fleece (atthe start of the Age of Aries).

--- PAGE 53 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

a pair of fish set head to tail with one another. This means that the vesica piscis
is a perfect vehicle for transmitting the symbolism of the Piscean Age: it is
literally the vessel of the fish; and the fish image can be either left facing or right
facing (see Figure 4-10).»

It can now also be shown that Figure 4-4 and Figure 4-5, showing the potential
relationships between the circle and the square, are both applicable. The use of
two circles in constructing the vesica piscis suggests the accompanying presence
of two squares. These are shown in Figure 4-11 as ABCD and abed. The top
circle can be associated either with the square abed (as in Figure 4-4) or with
the square ABCD (as in Figure 4-5).

FIGURE 4-10: THE PISCEAN IMAGE OF TWO FISHES

"The vesiea pric was not specifically a Christian innovation (sce Chapter 5), Nevertheless, che adoption of the
resca in Christian symbolism undoubtedly marked a new order of understanding, both about the nature of life in
general and about the nature of humankind in particular. With the bull and the ram, God was seen as being an
‘external force assigned 0 the vault of the heavens. With the fish, however, God was seen as being in some way
internal to the experience of life. The vesca represented the point where the external God (The Father — ie. the top
circle) met the internal Life Force (The Holy Spirit — i.e. the lower circle) to become a perfect, God-realised, human
being (The Son). The latter is an accurate description of “the Son of man”, which was essentially a Jewish
conception, Alternative epithets were Adam Kadmon and “Sky Man’. It was taken to mean the archetypal ~ or
“perfect” — man, whose consciousness spanned Heaven and Earth. See Hugh Schonfield, The Exene Odysey
(Element, Shaftesbury (Dorset), 1984).

37

--- PAGE 54 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

A B

d 0}

FIGURE 4-11: DOUBLE CIRCLE AND DOUBLE SQUARE

THE NUMBER 666 AND TIME

This particular representation of the vesica is important because it contains a
reference to the active energy of creation that was discussed in Chapter 3, via
the number 666. This is shown in Figure 4-12, which reflects the dimensions
used in Figure 4-7. Half the width of a circle in the diagram is:

6834 / 2 = 3417

Hence, the height of the rectangle enclosing the two circles is three times this

number. That is:

3417 x 3 = 10,250

--- PAGE 55 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAS
CHAPTER 4

At the same time, the width of the rectangle is 6834. Hence the ratio of the
width to the height is:

6834 / 10,250 = 0.666"

LLve

_

} =

J oO

E/R

nN} Oo

Ww | °
—

Lie

I 6834 !

FIGURE 4-12: THE 666 RECTANGLE AND THE VESICA PISCIS

It is also important to remember that this particular version of the vesica piscis
emerges when the numerology of “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and “the Son
of man in the heart of the earth” are linked together through the use of the
phrase “three days and three nights”. In other words, the vesica emerges only
once account is taken of the passage of time. Appendix 3 demonstrates how the
dimensions of the vesica in St. Matthew's text can be correlated with gematrian
values for “three days and three nights”.

So, let us recapitulate. We now know that the reference to “Jonas” and to “the
Son of man” in St. Matthew's Gospel is a reference — veiled through the science
of gematria — to an ancient geometric symbol known as the vesica piscis. The
presence of this “vessel of the fish” is confirmed by the explicit reference in the
text to the “belly of the whale”.

Ta gemattia, the ymbolion of the number always overrides the nature oF its presentation ~ that is, decimal points
are ignored,

39

--- PAGE 56 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Furthermore, the symbol is implicitly associated with two aspects of the
phenomenon of Life. First, the vesica is encapsulated by a rectangle whose
dimensions reflect the number 666. It is, therefore, associated with the active
energy of creation. Second, the vesica was generated with the help of the phrase
“three days and three nights”. It is, therefore, associated in some way with the
dimension of time.

We can now look at this revelation in a little more detail.

40

--- PAGE 57 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 5

THE SON OF MAN IN THE
HEART OF THE EARTH

“I believe there was a secret meaning in what [Christ] said; that the Son of
man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”

W. D. Gann

THE NUMBER 1061

In the previous three Chapters, I demonstrated the importance of symbolic
numbers in ancient Greek texts. I also concluded that, in Chapter 12 of St.
Matthew's Gospel, there was a clear textual distinction between the name lava
(ie. “Jonah” in “the sign of the prophet Jonah”) and the name fcavac (Le.
“Jonas” in “Jonas in the belly of the whale”), This distinction is of immense
ce. The addition of the “¢” in the original Greek has the effect of
adding 200 to the gematrian — or symbolic — value of the name.

importa

The symbolic number for “Jonas” is thus 1061; and this number yields either a
circle when it is combined with the spatial number of “the belly of the whale”,
or it yields a square when it is associated with the subject-spatial numbers of
the “Son of man” in “the heart of the earth”.

In addition, I concluded that, once an account was taken of the symbolic
numbers for the passage of time (i.e. 2586), the relationships between the
numbers reveals the presence of a vesica piscis — the vessel of the fish.

It can now be shown that the reference to the passage of time represented a new
philosophical development, and a potential revelation about the structure of the cosmos.

--- PAGE 58 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

To understand this, it is first necessary to analyse the role of the number 1061
in gematria. The important piece of information is that this number is also the
symbolic number for the Greek god Apollo (i.e. AToAAaov). That is:

AtroAAaov = 1+ 80 + 70 + 30 + 30 + 800 + 50 = 1061

In the Greek pantheon, Apollo was the god of light and reason. But the point
here is that he was always associated specifically with two other gods: Zeus (i.e.
Zeuc), the father god who reigned on Mount Olympus; and Hermes (ice.
Enc), the messenger of the gods. The symbolic number of Zeus is 612 and
the symbolic number of Hermes is 353. That is:

Zeuc = 7 +5 + 400 + 200 = 612

Emuns = 5 +100 + 40 + 8 + 200 = 353

The startling fact here is that the numbers 1061, 612 and 353 are related to one
another in two distinct ways. First, they are related by a common ratio. That is:

1061 / 612 = 1.733/1

612 / 353 = 1733/1

Second, and as a result of this relationship, the gematrian number for “Zeus”
(i.e. 612) represents the geometric mean between the numbers for “Apollo” (i.e.
1061) and “Hermes” (i.e. 353). Specifically:

612 = V(106) x 353)

These relationships throw up a striking parallel between the three Greek gods
(placed in the hierarchical order of: Zeus, Hermes, and Apollo) and the
Christian Trinity as analysed in Chapter 2 (i.e. Father, Holy Spirit, and Son).
These parallels are emphasised by the fact that the three Greek gods are linked
together by the ratio 1.733:1, and the three aspects of the Trinity are linked
through the Golden Ratio 1.618:1. In both cases, therefore, a triad of forces are
linked symbolically and mathematically.

THE LAW OF THREE IN GREEK PHILOSOPHY

‘Aswill beshown; Chapter 12 of St, Matthew's Gospel focuses on the difference
between the two presentations and, in doing so, offers a revelation concerning
the nature of time itself. In the meantime, however, the fact that “Jonas” and
“Apollo” have the same symbolic numbers is unlikely to be just a coincidence.
‘The number 1061 links “Jonas” to the god “Apollo”, and therefore assigns to

42

--- PAGE 59 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER S

the former the attributes of latter. But, in linking “Jonas” to the three Greek
gods, it also symbolically linked St. Matthew's text to the Law of Three.

The additional clue here is the ratio 1.733:1, which was of tremendous
importance in Greek philosophy. The number 1.733 itself is virtually identical
to the irrational number V3 = 1.7320508...,: which in turn was an explicit
reference to the importance of the interrelationship of three forces. This
interrelationship was the Greek version of the Law of Three.

There were three main images of these three forces — and therefore of the Law
of Three — in Greek geometry. Each of these images involved the irrational
number V3. The first was the perfect equilateral triangle. In such a triangle, the
lengths of the sides are equal, and the height is V3 multiplied by half the width
of the base. See the left-hand diagram of Figure 5-1. The equality of the sides
emphasised the equivalence of the positive, negative and equilibrating energies
in Creation, Usually, the equilateral triangle was shown in the context of a circle.
Such a triangle would therefore divide the circumference of the circle into three
equal parts. See the right-hand diagram of Figure 5-1. This triangle/circle
combination will be revisited in Chapter 8.

FIGURE 5-1; THE PERFECT EQUILATERAL TRIANGLE

The second image of the Greek Law of Three was the simple formative image of
volume in three-dimensional space — namely, the cube. The square and the cube
were associated with the solidity of matter and of earthly existence. The diagonal
width of a cube, split from one corner to the opposite corner, is measured by
the ratio V3:1. See Figure 5-2.

"The inference aways wa that the number 1.733 was a representation of the value of V3, See Fidler, Jos Chit

43

--- PAGE 60 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

— Oe

NS.

L414

FIGURE 5-2; THE CUBE

But the third image is the most important in the immediate context — it is the
vesica piscis. The vesica, like the perfect equilateral triangle, is defined by the
ratio V3:1. This is shown in Figure 5-3 below. Here, the width of the vesica is
V3 multiplied by the height of the vesica. Despite the use made of the vesica
piscis in Christian symbolism, it had a much earlier origin. It signified the
interaction of opposites, with the area formed by the interlocking circles
representing the region where pre-existent form fused with manifest creation.

FIGURE 5-3: THE VESICA PISCIS AND V3

--- PAGE 61 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

A break with tradition

The seminal work of David Fideler has made it very clear that the number 1061
would automatically evoke the numbers 612 and 353 (with their symbolic
references to the forces of the gods), the ratio V3:1 (with its geometric
implications), and the vesica piscis (with its pre-Christian ideas of the fusion of
opposites).’ As a cross-check, if the width of the vesica is Apollo (1061), then the
height is going to be Zeus (612); and if the width is Zeus, then the height is going
to be Hermes (353). This is precisely why the number 1061 was so important.

So, whilst it could now take modern researchers many hours to disinter the
vesica from any given piece of text, an ancient Greek theologian with a
knowledge of gematria would almost certainly have intuited its presence just
from the number 1061. And, in this case, St. Matthew's text actually emphasises
the presence of the vesica (in the context of the number 1061) by using the
phrase “in the belly of the whale”. Ordinarily, this would have been enough.

In this particular case, however, there was also something else. The initial
construction of the vesica in Chapter 4 used the numbers 5919 and 6834. In
other words, the specific vesica that was hidden within St. Matthew's text
depended, not just on Jonas, but aéso on the Son of man. This suggests that an
important message was intended. The phrase “Jonas in the belly of the whale”
was undoubtedly a direct reference to the known geometry of the vesica piscis.
However, the use of the numbers 5919 and 6834 suggests a reference to an
unknown aspect of the vesica deriving from a higher order. If correct, this
represents a major development from tradition.

THE GOLDEN RATIO AT WORK

St. Matthew's text draws all these concepts into focus, but its brilliance lies in using
the associated Greek philosophy and geometry as a stepping stone to a revelation.
As has already been discussed, “the sign of the prophet Jonah” depends for its
interpretation on the relationship between two phrases — namely, “Jonas in the
belly of the whale for three days and three nights” and “the Son of man in the
heart of the earth for three days and three nights”. Each of these phrases consists
of a person, in a place, and for a given length of time. Each phrase, therefore, is
an event that lasts for a fixed period of time. If we calculate the symbolic numbers
for each of the sub-phrases relevant to each event, Table 5-1 emerges.

"Wid.
"The number 1061 was undoubtedly a particularly sacred number.

45

--- PAGE 62 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Jonas event | Proportion of total (%) |Son of man event | Proportion of total (%)
Who 106) 18 3030 44
Where = [2272 38 1218 8
How long | 2586 44 2586 38
Totals 5919 100 6834 100

TABLE 5-1; SYMBOLIC NUMBERS RELATING “JONAS” TO THE “SON OF MAN”

What is interesting here is the existence of specific internal resonances between
the two events. In both events, each sub-phrase represents 18%, 38% or 44%
of the total. Furthermore, note that 18% + 44% = 62%. In the case of the Jonas
event, “who” and “how long” together form 62% of the phrase; while “where”
forms 38%. In the case of the Son of man event, “who” and “where” form 62%
of the total phrase, while “how long” forms 38%. So St. Matthew's text
incorporates the Golden Ratio, 38:62.

In Chapter 2, it was shown that, when looking at energies of Creation within
the context of the Christian scriptures, the active generative force can be
represented by the number 666 and that the passive receptive force can be
represented by 1080. It was also shown that, in relation to their originating
Source, these numbers were reflected, respectively, in the ratios 0.382:1 (i.e.
666:1746) and 0.618:1 (i.e. 1080:1746). The functions of these ratios are not
restricted just to their immediate context, which means that the ratio 0.382:1
can be used to isolate those elements in St. Matthew's text that are “active” in
relation to the hidden message.

Hence, in the case of the Jonas event, the active energy is represented by the
location — i.e. in “the belly of the whale” (see Table 5-1). It has already been
shown that this is true because “the belly of the whale” is a direct reference to
the vesica piscis. If the same logic is then applied to the case of the Son of man
event, the obvious conclusion to be drawn is that the active energy is provided
by the time dimension (see Table 5-1 again). The focus has therefore shifted
from “where” to “how long”.

“JONAH” VERSUS “JONAS” AGAIN

This insight can be validated by another very important symbolic relationship
within the text. But the detail of the text itself first needs some attention. In Chapter
4, I raised the possibility that it might be necessary to reconcile the difference
between “Jonah” in verse 39 and “Jonas” in verse 40, by making them identical.
The whole of the foregoing analysis would, of course, be irrelevant if the name
“Jonas” was reduced to “Jonah”. The mathematical relationships would disappear.

46

--- PAGE 63 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

If, on the other hand, the correct appellation for the prophet was “Jonas” rather
than “Jonah”, then the hugely symbolic number 1061 would be applicable. As
shown in Chapter 4, the gematrian value of “the sign of the prophet Jonas”
would be increased from 3912 to 4112. Although there is no obvious peripheral
evidence that such a reconciliation was intended, the direct evidence from
making the adjustment is compelling.

In Chapter 4, the sign given by Jesus was quite specifically categorised: it
belonged not just to “Jonah”, but to the “prophet Jonah/Jonas”. Hence, the word
mpopntou (i.e. “prophet”) is obviously relevant to the analysis. By gematria,
the value of mpopntou is 1528. This means that the gematrian value for the
epithet “prophet Jonas” becomes (1528 + 1061 =) 2589. This is virtually
equivalent to the number 2586, which is the gematrian value of Tp€I¢ NUEPAS
Kal TPEIG VUKTAG, meaning “three days and three nights”.

Indeed, the flexibility permitted by the colel allows the two numbers to be
matched. Therefore, the phrase “prophet Jonas” has, in effect, the same symbolic
meaning as “three days and three nights”. It also implies that, since the “prophet
Jonas” is interchangeable with “three days and three nights”, “the sign of the
prophet” can be read as being “the sign of the three days and three nights”. In
other words, the text is placing the purpose of “the sign of the prophet Jonas”
within the dimension of time.:

Three important points have thus been established. First, the sign to which Jesus
was referring in St. Matthew's text involves the vesica piscis. Second, however,
the precise form of this vesica was not the traditional one because it is created
using the phrase “the Son of man in the heart of the earth for three days and
three nights’; it therefore implies a new dimension to the symbol. Third, this
additional dimension in some way involved the phenomenon of time. It is now
necessary to establish how the latter expresses itself in the context of geometry.

THE GOLDEN RATIO AND TIME

It was shown in Table 5-1 that once St. Matthew's text is broken down into its
constituent parts the Golden Ratio emerges. For example, the value of the phrase
“the Son of man in the heart of the earth” (i.e. 4248) is related to the value of
the total phrase “the Son of man in the heart of the earth, three days and three
nights” (i.e. 6834) by the Golden Ratio. That is:

4248 / 6834 = 0.62

1 There are other wlationships here. For eample, the number for “three days” (Le. 909) is equal, by gematria, to
the number for “nights”, So the phrase could read “three days and three {three days)”, thereby suggesting a period
of (3 + (3 x 3)), or twelve, days. The number 12 is one of the important numbers in the context both of time and
of circular measurement.

47

--- PAGE 64 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

It is the addition of the crucial phrase “three days and three nights” to the
denominator that reveals the presence of the Golden Ratio. Time and the
Golden Ratio are therefore related in some way. Now suppose that the phrase
“three days and three nights” is a literal reference to a specific transit of clock-
time — that is, to a period defined as “three days” followed by “three nights”.
The symbolic number for “three days” (i.e. TEI NUEPAC) is 969 and the
number for “three nights” (ie. TOéIG vUKTAC) is 1586. Hence, the arithmetic
sum of “three days” (i.e. 969) plus “three nights” (i.e. 1586) is 2555, such that:

969 / 2555 = 0.38

1586 / 2555 = 0.62

And this is exactly what is to be expected from the general symbolism of the
words “day” and “night”: the former is associated with light and action, and
therefore with the ratio 0.382:1; the latter is associated with darkness and
passivity, and therefore with the ratio 0.618:1.:

The evolution of thought

However, the critical evidence confirming the influence of the Golden Ratio
lies (again) within the symbolic number for “the sign of the prophet Jonas”. The
fact is that 4112 is bound to the Golden Ratio by the formula:

4112 = (666 x 0.6174) x 10

Hence, “the sign of the prophet Jonas” is defined by the combination of the
active energy of Creation (i.e. 666) and the Golden Ratio (i.e. 0.62).

This last formula isolates something new and important in St. Matthews text.
Although the symbol of the vesica piscis was well known at the time the text was
written in the first century A.D., its relationship to the numbers 666 and 0.618
was essentially a secret. The revelation therefore has two implications. The first
—which is philosophical, but which needs to be highlighted — is that it closes a
loop that the original Greek version of the vesica piscis left open. The symbolic
numbers of Apollo, Zeus and Hermes reflect a continuous proportion in three
b:c). Traditionally, such a proportion represents the use of
1g by analogy and requires the application of a type of intelligence
that is classically human.

See Chapter 2
“ Furthermore, “the sign of the prophet Jonas” is on the same ray as the symbolic numbers 1746, 1080 and 666.
This is because the ratio 411.2:666 is equivalent to 666:1080 and 1080:1746, of 0.618:1.

48

--- PAGE 65 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

This type of proportional relationship is to be distinguished from a simple
proportion in two terms (i.e. a:b), which represents understanding by
comparison. The resulting recognition of “differences” is necessary to Life, but
is not sufficient for human intelligence. The Golden Ratio, however, is a
continuous proportion in two terms (i.e. a:b::b:(a+b)). If this is taken to involve
a jump to a higher order of mental functioning — that is, to the level beyond
comparison and analogy — then the Golden Ratio implies intuitive
understandings, arrived at within the context of a prior Unity. The “sign of the
prophet”, therefore, can be interpreted as an affirmation of the drive within
evolution to create the conditions for higher intelligence.

The second implication, however, may be a genuine revelation: it concerns the
geometry of time itself. Remember that the number 666 is a symbolic number
in Greek gematria. In the double circle diagram of the vesica piscis it arises in
the form of a ratio. However, in gematria, the symbolism of the number always
overrides the nature of its presentation — that is, decimal points are ignored.
This means that, symbolically, “the sign of the prophet Jonas” is equal to 666 x
0.62 and there is only one way to interpret this statement. This is that, for some
reason, the active energy of Creation is to be multiplied by the Golden
Number. The question then is: what exactly does this mean?

Squaring output with input

The active energy within any process can be measured either in terms of what
goes into the process (i.e. inputs) or in terms of what comes out of it (i.e.
outputs). Asa generalisation, it is consistent with the analysis of Chapters 2 and
3 that the number 666 (and hence the ratio 0.382:1) is representative of output
energy, while the number 1080 (and hence the ratio 0.618:1) is representative
of input energy. The logical conclusion, therefore, is that “the sign of the prophet
Jonas” requires that the measured output from any process is multiplied by the
Golden Number.

At the same time, the use of the words “day” and “night” in the phrase “three
days and three nights” is suggestive, respectively, of the processes of activity and
rest. And symbolic numbers often represent energies of some sort. If these two
ideas are put together, it also seems logical that the symbolic number for “three
days” (i.e. 969) can be taken to represent the active process of creation, while the
number for “three nights” (i.e. 1586) might represent the passive, rest, phase of
creation. Then multiplying 969 and 1586 by 0.62 yields the following equation:

(969 x 0.62) + (1586 x 0.62) = 1584

Tn Gregory Bateson’ sense of a “difference which makes a difference”, See Bateson, Mind and Nature.

49

--- PAGE 66 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In other words, the resu/t of the calculation (i.e. 1584) is virtually identical to
the largest number (1586) used in the calculation.

This is a stunning result because it means that, if this equation is transferred onto
a geometric diagram, the result is a square. Each calculation on the left-hand side
of the equation represents a Golden Rectangle — namely, a rectangle of 969 x
0.62 and a rectangle of 1586 x 0.62. If these rectangles are then placed on a chart,
so that their widths are registered horizontally and their heights are measured
ettically, then the sum of cheir widths — when they ate placed contigiioudly ~is
equal to the height of the largest rectangle. This is shown in Figure 5-4.

1586

Thput

200 600 10001400
1586,

FIGURE 5-4: THE INPUT-OUTPUT SQUARE OF 666 AND 0.62

Squaring activity with Time

To repeat: this is stunning. The Jonas event and the Son of man event each have
a particular beginning and a particular end — i.e. each has a specific life span.
Each event transits two rectangles —

. one lasting three days and one lasting
three nights. Each event therefore terminates when a square has been formed.
Indeed, if it is assumed that the vertical axis represents some form of output,
and that the horizontal axis represents an as yet undefined form of input, the
event terminates when output meets input on the 45° diagonal line. The work
of Creation is therefore literally “squared off” and completed when the extent

of creativity is equal to the sum of the creativity in each time frame multiplied
by the Golden Ratio.

As presented, Figure 5-4 assumes that activity is followed by rest. There is,
however, another way of looking at “three days and three nights”. Any active
process in the mundane world is necessarily preceded by a stimulus of some

50

--- PAGE 67 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE SON OF MAN IN THE HEART OF THE EARTH
CHAPTER 5

sort. This means that the organism has to go through a passive adjustment phase
before its own internal energy is activated. This phenomenon will be revisited
again in Chapter 8, but it means that the Golden Rectangles within Figure 5-4
could be reversed. The outcome is shown in Figure 5-5.

In both diagrams, the phenomenon of time — better written as “Time”, with a
capital “T” — is shown to have an objective dimension. Movement in the manifest
world is related — through the influence of the Golden Ratio — to an unseen
creative energy. This energy is not yet properly known to science; but, by
tradition, it has been known as “spirit”. The phenomenon of Time isa reflection
of the influence of a hidden creative energy.

Output
1600
1400
1200

1000

1586

600
400
200

FIGURE 5-5: THE PASSIVE-ACTIVE SQUARE OF 666 AND 0.62

UNKNOWN SOURCE OF ORDER?

In the original Greek, St. Matthew's “sign of the prophet Jonah/Jonas” consists
of only 48 words.” Even now, it seems extraordinary that such a small number
of words could be used to hold a complex set of geometric diagrams. In ancient
times, these diagrams could only have been exhumed by the select few who had
access to geometry and mathematics. In the early stages of the Christian era,
attention would undoubtedly have focused on the connections between the man
Jesus, the concept of the Son of man, and the image of the vesica piscis. These

* Icis my belief thar this isthe true basis of William D. Gans formula for “squaring price with time”.
’ The number 48 itself is very significant because ~ via the number 12 (ie. 4 x 12 = 48) — it alludes to the heavens
and the zodiac. See Michell, Dimensions of Paradise.

51

--- PAGE 68 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

connections would have been regarded as a natural proof that Jesus was to be
the true representation of the Divine during the Age of Pisces.

But there seems to be something else: hidden in the text are two diagrams that
— even if identified — could not easily have been understood by ancient
geometers. There would have been no context within which to put them. The
first diagram suggests that there is an objective dimension to Time. The second
diagram, which will be addressed shortly, suggests that time-bound natural
processes exhibit a very specific pattern of vibration.

‘Taken together, these two diagrams indicate that St. Matthews text reveals not
just a hidden form of order behind the phenomenon of Life, but a form of order
that modern scientific research does not yet recognise. This conclusion could,
of course, be misplaced; but, if it isn't, either St. Matthew's text is an unbelievably
clever fabrication or science has a paradigm shift to negotiate.

52

--- PAGE 69 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 6

THE STRUCTURE OF THE
MUSICAL OCTAVE

‘A study of the seven-tone musical scale gives a very good foundation for
understanding the cosmic law of octaves.”

P.D. Ouspensky

THE OCTAVE

In Chapter 3, it was argued that the Law of Three is an essential aspect of Life.
It will be shown that this law — which embraces active, passive, and neutralising
forces — is not the only one that is involved with the concept of vibration.
Nevertheless, if it is a fundamental law, it must be present in all aspects of
vibration. One direct way of exploring this idea is to see how it exists within
the vibrations of music — in particular, within the musical octave. This chapter
will therefore analyse the simple mathematics of the octave in search of the Law
of Three and, in so doing, provide a crucial link to Chapter 7.

The first point is that Western music is based on a particular set of notes, centred
on a vibration of 256 cycles per second. This vibration, which is traditionally
referred to as “Middle C” because of its location on a piano keyboard, evokes a
sympathetic response in human beings: the human body literally resonates with
it and harmonises with it.

The second point is that the minimum number of notes that can be used to
create a practical set is eight. This is the octave. The set starts with one note and

"Theo Gimbel, Form, Sound, Colour and Healing (CW. Daniel Company Ltd, Saffron Walden (Essex), 1987).

53

--- PAGE 70 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

ends where the vibration of a note has either doubled or halved. If we use an
octave based on Middle C (hereafter ‘C™'’), the ascending octave stops with a
vibration of 512 cycles per second (at ‘C'"”), and the descending octave finishes
with a vibration of 128 cycles per second (at ‘C!’).

The third point is that each note in the octave bears a constant relationship to
C™. There are therefore six ratios in any particular octave that do not involve
either a doubling or a halving of vibrations. Table 6-1 shows a full set of notes
in an ascending and in a descending octave based on C™'?, together with the
relevant ratios. The vibrations of the descending octave are calculated by using
half the diatonic ratios.

Ascending octave Descending octave

[Note Vibration Ratio to C Note Vibration Ratio to C
oo siz 2 ie 256 1

B 480 1875 B 240 0.9375

A 426.666 1.666 A 213,248 0.8333

G 384 15 G 192 0.75

F 341.333 1.333, F 170.496 0.666

E 320 125 E 160 0.625

D 288 25, i?) 144 0.5625
om 256 1 & 128 Os

TABLE 6-1: THE ASCENDING AND DESCENDING OCTAVE

By tradition, an octave is referred to as being diatonic (from the Greek
diaTovikoc, meaning “through the tones”). Moreover, the musical notes are
referenced by a form of notation, known as the tonic sol-fa — namely, Do, Re
Me, Fa, So, La, Ti, Do.: Table 6-2 shows the ascending and descending octaves,
using the tonic sol-fa.

Ascending octave Descending octave

Note Tonic Sol-fa | RatiotoC Note Tonic Sol-fa | RatiotoC
o Do" 2 c= Do 1

B Ti 1875 B Ti 0.9375

A La 1.666 A la 0.8333

G So 1s G So 0.75

F Fa 1333 F Fa 0.666

E Mi 1.25 E Me 0.625

D Re 125 D Re 0.5625

cn Do 1 1 Do'* 0.5

TABLE 6-2: THE TONIC SOL-FA

‘The tonic sola was originally mivoduced to help sight rea

54

--- PAGE 71 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE STRUCTURE OF THE MUSICAL OCTAVE
CHAPTER 6

THREE INNER OCTAVES

So far, this is standard information. What is not so well known is that a basic
ascending octave contains shree inner octaves. In the ascending octave in Tables
6-1 and 6-2, the move from Do to Do" involves a doubling of vibrations from
256 cycles per second to 512 cycles per second. In other words, there is an
increase in vibrations of 256 cycles per second. As Russell Smith has shown: we
can therefore look at the tonic sol-fa in a slightly different way, using the fact of
an increase of 256 in vibrations, but starting from zero. Although the ratios in
Tables 6-1 and 6-2 hold true when compared with CM! as Do, the ratios are
different when they are calculated in relation to the whole range of vibrations,
from 0 to 256. This is shown in Figure 6-3. The vibrations follow the sequence
0, 1/8, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3, 7/8, 1.

Ascending octave

Tonic Sol-fa Vibrations Ratio within whole
Do! 256 1

Ti 224 0.875

la 170.666 0.666

So 128 0S

Fa 85.333 0.333

Me 64 0.25

Re 32 0.125

Do ) i}

TABLE 6-3: THE TOTALITY OF 256 VIBRATIONS

Table 6-3 contains three important pieces of information concerning the Law
of Three. First, the diatonic octave that covers the whole phenomenon of 0 to
256 vibrations contains three doublings in vibration, starting at Re (32) — that
is, at Me (64), So (128) and Do" (256). Since the basic idea of an octave is the
doubling and halving of vibrations, the whole phenomenon of 0-256 vibrations
can therefore be seen as spanning three octaves starting, respectively, at Re, Me
and So. This is shown in Table 6-4.

The fact that each octave contains three inner octaves reflects the operation of
the Law of Three. Each inner octave represents one of the three creative forces —
active/neutral/passive — that define the Law of Three. Each of the three forces
has to undergo the exigencies of climbing through its own octave. This is not as
easy as it sounds because, as will be shown in Chapter 7, each octave has points
of retardation — or energy gaps — which have to be surmounted. Only the
completion of three successive octaves produces the whole phenomenon.

Russell A. Smith, Gurdjieff: Cosmic Secrets (The Dog, Sanger (Tx), 1993).

55

--- PAGE 72 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

PI AND THE LAW OF SEVEN

Second, these three inner octaves span 22 notes. This is because:
1. Each octave consists of 7 tones;
2. The end of each inner octave is also the beginning of the next octave; and

3. The whole higher level octave can only be complete when the final Do is
struck,

We thus have 21 (3 x 7) notes in the three inner octaves plus the final Do. See
Table 6-4. Importantly, the numbers 22 and 7 reference the classical ratio that
defines the relationship between the circumference of a circle and its diameter.
This ratio, denoted by the Greek letter 1 (or pi), is 22/7.. As Michael Hayes has
demonstrated,’ this ratio links the Law of Three to another law — the Law of
Seven — that is intimately linked to the evolution of cycles and rhythms. The
Law of Seven will be dealt with in the next chapter.

Mr. Hayes’ insight was that the numerator in the ratio refers to the number of
notes in three octaves, and the denominator references the number of intervals,
or tones, in an octave. And, as was shown in Chapter 4, the formula for a circle
can be found in St. Matthew's text in the context of the passage of time."

Third, the range of vibrations can be divided into thirds, also starting at Re —
namely, at Fa (0.333), La (0.666) and Do!" (1.000). These are highlighted in
Figure 6-3. The vibration of Fa is 85.333 cycles per second, that of La is 170.666
cycles per second, and the vibration of Do"! is 256 cycles per second. The
vibrations are thus 85.333 cycles per second apart. See Table 6-4. As will be
shown in Chapter 8, these points are important to an understanding of
inflexions within any genuine cycle.

SUPPORT AND RESISTANCE IN FINANCIAL
MARKETS

In Chapter 14, I shall deal with the triple octave within the context of Mr.
Gann's approach to cycles. Here, it can be noted that Mr. Gann appears to have
used the ratios within an octave to calculate points at which a financial market
trend might hesitate or reverse. The first step was to divide trading ranges into

TThe quotient of the ratio 20/7 & 3.140857... etc. However, the more precise representation of 7B
3.14159265358979... etc. It is also relevant that, first, the gematrian value for 1s 80, so that 8 + 0 = 8 (the notes in
a complete octave) and that, second, ris the 16th letter of the Greek alphabet, so that 1 + 6 = 7 (the tones in an octave).
* Michael Hayes, The Infinite Harmony: Musical Structures in Science and Theolegy (Weidenfeld and Nicolson,
London, 1994).

“Ie seems appropriate that the Greek word for “circle” — xvxAoc — also means “cycle”

56

--- PAGE 73 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE STRUCTURE OF THE MUSICAL OCTAVE

CHAPTER 6

eighths and thirds’ in order to isolate potential support and resistance levels.
The second step was to focus on halvings and doublings — in terms both of
retracements and of absolute moves — on the grounds that they were potential

reversal points.

Whole phenomenon Triple octave
Tonic Sol-fa Vibration Tonic Sol-fa Vibration
Do" 256 Do* 256
Ti 240
Ti 224
|
La’ 213.333
So’ 192
la 170.666 Fa’ 170.666
Me 160
Re’ 144
So 128 Do’ 128
TF 120
Ta 106.666
50° 96
Fa 85.333 Fa? 85.333
Me 80
Re’ 72
Me 64 Do? 64
Ti 60
La! 53.333
So’ 48
Fa’ 42.666
Me! 40
Re 36
Re 32 Do’ 32
Do 1)

TABLE 6-4: THE WHOLE PHENOMENON AND THE TRIPLE OCTAVE

Since the purpose of this book is to focus on the dynamics of human behaviour
rather than to isolate profitable trading techniques, these ideas will not be

My own research suggests that the 38.2% and 61.8% levels are more important, Mr. Gannis use of thirds may have
been related ro his caution about advertising the power of the Golden Ratio.

57

--- PAGE 74 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

analysed here. Nevertheless, it is worth emphasising the importance of 50% and
100% moves. The former would be the full extent of a descending octave and
the latter would be the full extent of an ascending octave. Of the two, Mr. Gann
considered that a halving was far and away the most powerful in terms of its
potential for a reversal." Falls of 50% were, for example, experienced in equity
markets during the financial collapse of 2007-09.

The point is that a completed octave would be a natural stopping point in a trend,
and an extension of the trend would therefore require some form of additional
energy to move it onwards. This is why — uniquely — changes in government policy
can be so important after a doubling or halving: an expansionary policy can help
to extend an advance or halt a fall. Conversely, however, a failure to act
appropriately, or at all, can stop an advance or extend a fall

THE OCTAVE AND THE LAW OF THREE

There is much more that could be said about the diatonic octave, not least
because the notes Mi and So of each inner octave will form the starting point
for octaves of even finer vibration.» The immediate conclusion, however, is that
the eight notes of an octave contain three inner octaves, or sections; and this, in
turn, specifically implies that any complete phenomenon can be seen in terms
of three phases.

Hence, we have two distinct concepts relating to the Law of Three: one where
the third element is not obvious; and one where it is. First, all oscillations
between the active and passive polarities in a natural system are organised by a
hidden reconciling force (Chapter 3). Second, a natural process will evolve in
three clear stages (this Chapter). As will be shown, each of these three stages can
be classified in terms of their active, passive and reconciling functions.

The interplay of these two perspectives on the Law of Three has great relevance
to an understanding of cyclical behaviour. In particular, the Law of Three co-
arises and co-exists with another fundamental law of the universe that can be
found in the octave. Mr. Gurdjieff called it the Law of Seven. This is the law
that is the essence of William Gann’s law of vibration.

See, for example, William D. Gann, 45 Years in Wall Street (Library of Gann Publishing Co., Pomeroy (Wa), 1949)
y own research suggests thar a 50% fall or retracement in broad equity indices is probably the only point where
direct government intervention can reverse a trend.
Interested readers are referred to Smith, Gurdjieff

58

--- PAGE 75 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 7

THE LAW OF SEVEN

“He had learnt that the 7th’ was a sacred day, and had often talked to Marie
about the number 7, and the number of times it was spoken of in the Bible.”

W.D. Gann

“Even our division of time, that is, the days of the week into work days and
Sundays, is connected with the same properties and inner conditions of our
activity which depend upon the general law [of octaves].”

P.D. Ouspensky

UNCOMMON KNOWLEDGE

Current scientific methodology does not allow much deviation from the
constraint of accepted wisdom. Our understanding of reality can therefore only
proceed through a kind of common consensus, where people accept something
as being true because others do as well. This understanding is passed on through
parents, peer groups and professional educators. All reality testing is done within
the framework of this common consensus, so that paradigm shifts — fundamental
changes in beliefs — only occur when there is a crisis of some sort. Such a crisis
may take the form of an overwhelming number of observations failing to accord
with reality, or it may take the form of a contradiction in the theoretical
framework of a belief system. Either way, progress can be painfully slow.

"Thomas Kuhn, The Theory of Scientific Revolutions (University of Chicago Press, Chicago (IIL), 1962). A paradigm
is not just a set of ideas. It is an actual research practice that generates data. New paradigms are therefore a response
to contradictory data brought up by old paradigms. They also disclose new data in their own right.

* Even where research has clearly established a new paradigm, large numbers may still be convinced that the old

59

--- PAGE 76 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Hence, new ideas — or old ideas, newly presented ~ are likely to encounter strong
emotional resistance, particularly if the ideas are derived from a totally different
culture or context. Sometimes, however — and despite the potential hostility —
the ideas are sufficiently extraordinary to warrant their disclosure. So it is with

The Law of Seven.

This fundamental law, and the teaching diagram used to communicate it,’ has
probably been known to humanity for thousands of years. However, it is also
likely that — because knowledge represents power — the details of the law (and
its associated cosmogony) have periodically been suppressed by those who
presume to authority over others. In any case, the Law of Seven has been
generally unknown in the West until well into the last century, but it is now
making a reappearance.

It appears initially to have been brought to the attention of Western thinkers
during the inter-war years by George Gurdjieff, Subsequently, a number of
associates — notably Pyotr Ouspensky,: John G. Bennett, Kenneth Walker: and
Charles S. Nott — devoted a great deal of time to analysing the implications
and applications of the law. Their findings were released into the public domain
during the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. Even more recently, others ~ such as Oschar
Ichazo' and Robert Campbell — appear separately to have found the same
phenomenon and have also chosen to disclose it. So the workings of this alleged
cosmic law are no longer a secret.

UNIVERSAL VIBRATIONS

The Law of Seven is the law that regulates vibrations and cycles. Its first assertion
is that everything in the universe vibrates. In the modern era, when theoretical
physicists are wrestling with the concepts of String Theory,” this statement does
hot seem especially strange. However, in the older, more mechanical, billiard
ball world of Newtonian physics, the idea would have been regarded as absurd.

The second assertion of the Law of Seven is that vibrations stimulate movement
elsewhere. This means that, first, every cause is itself a vibration and that, second,

‘Chuncr theories are actually He truth, Tn fact, while the emotions ofa Tange majority are actively engaged in following
a particular belief system, that majority is likely to persecute individuals with alternative information. John Stuart
Mill once observed that even the most self-evident axiom would cause a war if it threatened someone's beliefs

"See Chapter 8.

‘Ouspensky, Jn Search.

‘John G. Bennett, Enneagram Studies (Coombe Springs Press, Masham, 1974).
“Kenneth Walker, A Sudy of Gurdjieff Teaching (Jonathan Cape, London, 1957).

Charles $. Nott, Journey Through This World (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1969).
* Reported in Claudio Naranjo, Enmea-Type Structures (Gateways/IDHHB ine, Nevada City (Ca.), 1990),

° Robert Campbell, Fisherman Guide: A Stems Approach to Creativity and Organization (Shambhala, Boston (Ma. 1985).
See, for example, Shing-Tung Yau and Steve Nadis, The Shape of Inner Space: String Theory and the Geometry of
the Universes Hidden Dimensions (Basic Books, New York, 2010).

60

--- PAGE 77 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF SEVEN
CHAPTER 7

every cause will have a history and will have an effect that depends on that
history. The third assertion of the Law of Seven is that, once a movement (i.e.
an effect) has been initiated, it will be subject to retardations, or energy gaps, at
two very precisely-defined points in its evolution.” After the second energy gap,
the movement will be travelling in precisely the opposite direction from that in
which it started and, after the process has repeated, the movement will return
to travelling in its original direction. See Figure 7-1. In other words, movement
tends to occur in cycles.

2nd Energy Gap

g

1st Energy Gap => —————

<—$ © 3d Energy Gap

t

Initial Impulse
and
4th Energy Gap

FIGURE 7-1: THE FOUR ENERGY GAPS IN A CYCLE

Figure 7-1 is somewhat misleading in the sense that it implies that both energy
gaps in a successive pair of energy gaps are similar in nature. As we shall see in
the next chapter, this is not correct. Crossing the first energy gap involves an
evolution through the re-structuring of information that is already within a
system, but crossing the second energy gap involves evolution through the input
of new information from outside the system." The very nature of cycles involves
a successful crossing of the first gap and a failure to cross the second one. Figure
7-1 only states therefore that four important points have to be confronted for a
cycle to complete itself.

T This & a slight oversimplification. The Law of Seven states that the vibrations develop discontinuously, with
accelerations, as well as decelerations at specific points. However, itis the decelerations that are important in the
current context. For fuller details see, for example, Walker, Gurdjieff’ Teaching.

°-The idea that four points of deviation have to be passed through to complete of cycle is one of the hidden
meanings behind the concept of squaring a circle

"That is, it involves a paradigm shif.

61

--- PAGE 78 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

VIBRATION AND TIME

The importance of cycles is that they literally retard the effects of the passage of
time. Time is usually measured in relation to the movement of the moon around
the Earth, and of the Earth around the sun, But the phenomenon of Time is the
irreversible process of change; some have called it the “arrow of time”, implicitly
aligning it with self-organising systems; others have called it “energetic
causation”, thereby explicitly equating it with an energetic process." Since change
basically involves the dissolution of prior states, Time is intimately linked with
the movement towards entropy, or chaos. The operation of the Law of Seven (or
law of vibration) retards the collapse into chaos. In other words, cycles slow the
process of change.

This retardation can be viewed in either of two ways: cycles either insert a rest
period into the process of creation, or they insert a period of creativity into the
natural drawdown into chaos. In both cases, the process between beginning and
end becomes elongated. Indeed, although difficult to conceptualise, it can be
argued that Time is curved in a long cycle," which lasts from initial impulse to
final accomplishment.” This Cycle of Time, which is a function of creative
energy, contains and controls all subordinate cycles."

The Law of Seven is so called for two distinct, but related, reasons. The first of
these derives from the fact that the law is indeed a direct expression of the
relationships between musical notes in an octave. Specifically, the existence of
two critical energy gaps can be found within the seven gaps between the eight
notes of a musical octave.” The second reason why the law is called the Law of
Seven is that its working can be explained with the help of a geometric diagram
whose interrelationships are defined by the nwmber seven. We shall look at each
of these in turn. The rest of this chapter will outline the Law of Seven within
the context of the musical octave and the next chapter will explore the relevant
geometric diagram.

See, for example, Peter Coveney and Roger Highfidd, The Arrow of Time (WH. Allen, London, 1990). The
authors propose that Time is the factor that draws together unpredictable parts into a predictable whole, which
implicitly equates Time with self-organising systems and with some form of equilibrating energy. However, Time is
better regarded as a restriction on existence. In this context, the Law of Seven regards Time as being the movement
from one state of being to another. It therefore explicitly equates Time with change.

“Alfred North Whitehead, Process and Reality (Free Press, New York, 1969)

This has been called “The Cyde of Exernity”. Boris Mouravieff, Gnosis (Praxis Instinute Press, Newbury (Ma,), 1992)
© This cycle is reiterated at all levels of being for humanity. It operates through history in the evolution of
consciousness; it operates physically in the form of an individuals life cycle; and it operates psychologically in personal
development. For a detailed analysis of this process, see Ken Wilber, The Arman Project (Quest Books, Wheaton
(IL), 1989).

"There is obviously a big qui

"Seven tones and ci

here about the nature of this creative energy. See Chapter 3.
1 notes because ‘Do’ appears twice in an octave

62

--- PAGE 79 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF SEVEN
CHAPTER 7

THE LAW OF SEVEN AND THE MUSICAL OCTAVE

The Law of Seven controls the formation both of vibrations and of sound. This
follows logically — in the sense that, if it controls one, then it must control the
other — because all vibration creates sound waves.” Since everything vibrates, it
follows that the whole universe is saturated with sound waves. Most of these
waves are either so high or so low in pitch that they are outside the normal
hearing range of the human ear; but being unable to hear the vibration does
not mean that the vibration does not exist in the first place.

One of the essential qualities of vibration is that — if it interacts with its
environment* ina periodic or rhythmic manner» — it will strike a musical note.
As mentioned in Chapter 6, one of the most important is ‘Middle C’ of the so-
called diatonic scale.» Middle C (hereafter, “C™'’) is the note that sounds when
a vibration of 256 cycles per second is started, and it has been found that the
human body responds to it.»

Other notes harmonise with CM" via a series of ratios. The note that has double
the vibration of C™' will be eight notes higher, and the note that has half of
the vibration will be eight notes lower. A set of eight notes is thus the basis of
the diatonic octave. This is shown in Table 7-1, which reproduces some of the
information from Chapter 6.

In theory, this octave is based on the musical proportion 6:8:9:12, which is
known as the perfect fourth. In terms of the vibration rates given in Table 7-1,
this is equivalent to 256:341.33, or 384:512. This proportion also encompasses
the other perfect harmonic ratios of Western music — namely, the octave itself
(i.e. 6:12) and the perfect fifth (i.e. 6:9 or 8:12). It has been found that these
ratios, being perféct, are universal. They provide the framework for music of all
cultures, even though these cultures may use different syntaxes and different
intervals, and prefer different tuning systems.” The direct implication is that
music reflects universal laws of harmony.

Points of deceleration

The diatonic octave is important because it contains within it the essence of the

™Or, more precisely, longitudinal waves (as opposed to transverse light waves) that have the potential for being heard
"The ancient teaching behind the Law of Seven is that all vibration and all sound — whether hidden or not ~ is

sourced in God. Hence, sound is one of the main characteristics of the initial creative emanation of God — known

to Christianity as the Holy Spirit. This is why religions refer to the phenomenon as “The Word” or “The Sound

Current”, Ivis thought to resound through the universe, bearing with it the essence and characteristics of its Source.
A solid, liquid or gaseous medium.

"See Itzhak Bentov, Stalking the Wild Pendulum (Wildwood House, London, 1978).

“Middle C is so called because it is physically closest C to the middle ofa piano keyboard. Guy Murchie, Music of

the Spheres (Dover Publications, New York, 1961), The discovery of the diatonic scale is attributed to Pythagoras.

“Gimbel, Form, Sound, Colour and Healing

“Sigmund Levarie and Ernst Levy, Tone: A Study in Musical Acoustics (Kent State University Press (Kent), 1980).

63

--- PAGE 80 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Law of Seven. The law indicates that progress upwards through the octave
decelerates at two precise points. This can be expressed in either of two ways.
First, the octave consists of seven different tones (i.e. gaps between notes), but
only five semi-tones. Hence, two semi-tones are missing — namely, those between
E and F and between B and C"! (see Table 7-1). In the terminology of the tonic
sol-fa, progress upwards through the octave is retarded between Me and Fa, and
between Ti and Do".

Second, and in another way of making the same point, there are seven points of
potential change in vibration between the eight notes in the octave — namely
C-D, D-E, E-F, F-G, G-A, A-B, and B-C"". In Table 7-1, the vibrations are
given in column 6 as ratios, with the rate of vibration of the note C as the
numeraire. The difference between ratios, upwards through the octave, is
retarded at E-F and at B-C".

Note |Semi-tone | Tonic Solfa | Tonal Vibrations Relation to C
Cycles/second | Difference |Ratio _| Difference

Sa Do" 512 2

B Ti 480 32 1.875 0125

A At La 426.666 $3.333 1.666 |0.209

G GH So 384 42.666 1S 0.166

F FH Fa 341333 42.66 1.333 0.166

E Me 320 21.333 1.25 0.083

D O# Re 288 32 1125 0.125

c cH Do 256 32 1 0.125

TABLE 7-1: THE DIATONIC SCALE AND THE TONIC SOL-FA

This retardation, or deceleration, is also very clear if we plot either the
cumulative amount of the difference between vibrations, or the difference
between the ratios, in the octave. See Figure 7-2. There is a marked moderation
in the upward slope of the graph between E and F (i.e. Me and Fa) and then
between B and Cl" (i.e. Ti and Do").

The octave and the solar system

These decelerations obviously interrupt the smooth advance of vibrations up
through the octave. It’s as if the process falls into a gap of some sort. At one
level, this may seem to be no more than an interesting function of the way that
musical notes are structured. However, the phenomenon announces its ubiquity
by presenting itself in the most unlikely of places. The solar system, for example,
appears to contain parallel dislocations within the orbits of the planets.

This is shown below in Table 7-2, which measures the average distances from
the sun of each of the planets excluding the Earth. On this presentation, the
solar system consists of eight planets plus the asteroid belt that lies between Mars

64

--- PAGE 81 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF SEVEN
CHAPTER 7

and Jupiter.” If the sun is assumed in some way to act as the note Do, such that
it initiates an octave, then that octave appears to be complete at Uranus.

: we
tanta

up| secoraaasateaancnas Se] 1
vos j
. wef
2 as ) §
i et
1398 z

si

1s na

‘ ;

i [ae
does osc peeat

FIGURE 7-2: THE SLOWDOWN POINTS

The important point is that the ratio of the distances between successive planets
and the sun is essentially a constant of 1.85, except for Venus-Mars and Uranus-
Saturn where the ratio is in excess of 2.00. Hence an increase in the ratio of
distances occurs precisely where the diatonic octave predicts that they should
occur — namely, between Me and Fa, and between Ti and Do".

Note in octave [Planet [Average distance from sun (m miles) [Ratio of distances
Do Sun
2_|Re Mercury [36.25
185
s__|Me venus 6720
210
[Fa Mars 1a1.68
1.84
[5 [So Asteroid belt [26100
185
é | Jupiter 48400
nes
7_|t Saturn [g8710,
201
8 [Do" Uranus 1783.90
9 Neptune [2796.30 _|

TABLE 7-2: THE ENERGY GAPS IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM

‘The average distance of the asteroid belt from the sun is calculated trom Bode’s Law. In 1772, Johann E. Bode

65

--- PAGE 82 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The implications of the planetary octave within our solar system obviously lie
far beyond the scope of this book. Nevertheless, the existence of such a clear
parallel with the diatonic octave attests to the latter's extraordinary ubiquity. In
particular, it confirms the natural existence of very precisely defined points of
retardation within non-linear systems. According to the Law of Seven, these
points of deceleration are critical both to our understanding of the interaction
of living organisms with their environment and to the unfolding of the
associated cyclical behaviour. It is to this phenomenon that we now turn.

Tormulated this law and predicted that there should be a planet between Mars and Jupiter. This space is now known
to be filled by the asteroid belt. This suggests that the asteroid belt is either a planet that has been destroyed or debris
that was unable to accrete into a planet. Bode’s Law works only for planets up to Uranus. Neptune and Pluto do
not adhere to Bode's calculations.

"These observations raise some interesting questions. The Earth orbits between Venus and Mars, and therefore in
some way fills the gap between those two planets. What, therefore, is the Earth's function within the octave of the
Solar System? Meanwhile, the Earth has an average distance of 93 million miles from the sun, which means that
the ratio of that distance to Venus’ distance from the sun is just over 1.38 and the ratio of Mars’ distance from the
sun (0 that of the Earth is just under 1.62. Does this mean that the influence of the Golden Ratio extends into the
relationship between the Earth and its neighbouring planets? Finally, Neptune lies beyond the sun-Uranus octave
(and outside of the mathematics of Bode’ law). Does this mean that it somehow starts a new octave?

66

--- PAGE 83 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 8

THE OCTAVE AND
THE ENNEAGRAM

“T believe that a man who understands the meaning of that has all the power
under heaven and earth.”

W.D. Gann

“The understanding of this symbol and the ability to make use of it give man
very great power.”

P.D, Ouspensky

A TEACHING DIAGRAM

In Chapter 3, it was proposed that oscillations in the universe were subject to
the interplay of three creative forces. In Chapter 4, it was shown that the circle
seemed to have a central role to play in part of the hidden knowledge of the
ancients. In Chapter 6, it was argued that the laws governing the pattern of
vibration were implicit in the musical octave and in the circle-related ratio, 22/7.
In Chapter 7, a theoretical base was laid for the defining vibrations in terms of
the interplay of energy gaps, as revealed in the musical octave.

‘These three ideas — of three forces, energy gaps and a circle — now need to be
pulled together into a model that can generate cyclical oscillations. This model
is known as the enneagram.

67

--- PAGE 84 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The enneagram has been known about in the West for less than 100 years,
although it has a significantly longer history of influence. It was specifically used
by George Gurdjieff in the 1920s to instruct his pupils, but it reached a wider
audience after one of those pupils — Pyotr Ouspensky — produced a written record.

The enneagram derives its name from the Greek word €vved. or ennea, meaning
nine. It consists of an outer circle and an inner triangle, and a six-lined pattern
that is both contained by the circle and controlled by the triangle. See Figure 8-
1 below. The teaching behind the diagram is that it is an accurate representation
of every vibration within the universe, at all hierarchical levels, and over all time
periods. It is powered (if that is the right word) by an energy that is currently
unknown to science and is thus the representation of a sacred truth.: More
prosaically, it is the representation of perpetual motion through eternity.

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-1; THE ENNEAGRAM

MOVEMENT AROUND THE ENNEAGRAM

The outer periphery of the enneagram is a circle whose circumference is divided
into nine equal segments. The division between each segment of the

‘See, for example, Walker, Gurdjieff Teaching.

*Ouspensky, Jn Search.

‘The numeric value, by gematria, of enned (evvear) is 111, The three equal unities reference the Law of Three. And,
of course, 1 + 1 + 1 = 3.

‘ Ouspensky, In Search.

68

--- PAGE 85 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

circumference is given a number from 1 to 9. See Figure 8-2. The northern
point — which coincides with the apex of the triangle — is usually given the
number 9. The numbers | to 8 are then placed at equal distances around the
circumference of the circle. As was observed in Chapter 3, the number 9
represents initiation and completion — that is, the start and the finish. Hence, a
movement around the circle in a clockwise direction, starting with 9 and ending
with 9, represents a complete cycle.

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-2: MOVEMENT AROUND THE CIRCUMFERENCE OF THE ENNEAGRAM

However, the circle also represents a spiral. Viewed from above, the movement
appears as a circle; but viewed from the side, the movement may be seen as a
spiral. See Figure 8-3.

FIGURE 8-3: THE CIRCULAR SPIRAL AROUND THE OUTSIDE OF THE ENNEAGRAM

This is an oversimplification, but the point 9 that represents completion certainly
has a higher level of vibration than the point 9 that represents initiation. Hence,

69

--- PAGE 86 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

acomplete movement around the circle represents an evolution in quality as well
as a movement in quantity. This idea of evolution means that point 9 is
sometimes also denominated point 0. In this way it is made clear that the
movement from 0 to 9 represents some form of progress.

The importance of the enneagram, however, lies not 07 the circle but inside it.
Specifically, the movement of energy — which forces the cycle around the
periphery of the circle — does not actually progress sequentially from point 9
(or point 0) back to point 9. The energy instead flows from point to point
around the diagram in the repeating sequence, 1-4-2-8-5-7. This is represented
by the six arrowed lines within the circle in Figure 8-4.

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-4: THE MOVEMENT OF ENERGY WITHIN THE ENNEAGRAM

This movement of energy is the most important aspect of the Law of Seven, but
it is also the most difficult to understand. Therefore, before looking at the
process in more detail, it might be useful to demonstrate how it looks if it is
shown in a two-dimensional diagram that explicitly includes time. Let us assume
that a point on the enneagram with a higher number represents (in some sense)
a more evolved state than a point with a lower number.

Then, if we translate the number sequence 1-4-2-8-5-7 into a two-dimensional
diagram that relates each number to its occurrence at a specific moment in time,
the result is as shown in Figure 8-5 below. At time 1, the process is at point 1
on the circle; at time 2, the process is at point 4; at time 3, it is at point 2; at
time 4, it is at point 8; and so forth. The movement takes no account of the
time units used, or of distances travelled. Nevertheless, the fundamental pattern

70

--- PAGE 87 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

traced out by the enneagram is that of a three-up/three-down movement. And
this pattern is precisely the one that, in the 1980s, I had suggested existed in
financial markets. I called it the price pulse.

Movement
around
enneagram

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Time

FIGURE 8-5: THE ENNEAGRAM PULSE

THE ENNEAGRAM AND THE LAW OF SEVEN

We can now look at the interaction of the enneagram and the Law of Seven in
more detail. It was stated earlier that there are essentially two reasons why the
law of vibration was named the Law of Seven. The first derives from the law's
relevance to (and its analogy with) the musical octave. The octave is not only a
truly natural phenomenon; it is also a metaphor for the process of
transformation and change. Specifically, evolution can be described by a
sequence of seven steps between eight points, Hence, an initial impulse
(metaphorically described as Do) is then followed by seven separate steps —
namely, Do-Re, Re-Me, Me-Fa, Fa-So, So-La, La-Ti and Ti-Do'". The whole
process involves an increase in vibrations and the process is complete when (or

if) the vibrations double.

"Plummer Forecasting Financial Markets

“At this point, however, the process also begins again ~ but on a higher level ~ because, in order for the vibrations
to double, a new impulse (Do!) has to occur. This new impulse arises from outside the closed system of the original
yele, In other words, evolution is controlled by, and harmonises with, the environment

ral

--- PAGE 88 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

However, as was shown in Chapter 7, the Law of Seven clearly states that the
vibrations do not increase at a constant rate; rather, the increase accelerates and
decelerates at very specific points. In the context of cycles, it is the points of
deceleration that are the most important. The Law of Seven states that the
vibrations will decelerate at two of the seven steps after the initial impulse —
namely, between the equivalents of the steps Me-Fa and Ti-Do!! — thereby
introducing energy gaps into the process of growth. This is a fundamental law
of the universe.

The second reason why the Law of Seven has been given its name relates not to
the steps between the notes in the octave, but to the relationship between the
initial stimulus and the subsequent six energy points in the enneagram. As has
already been mentioned, energy flows around the enneagram in the sequence
1-4-2-8-5-7. This recurring sequence of numbers can be found within the result
of dividing unity by the number seven. That is:

1/7 = 0142857142857"

The sequence also emerges when the triple octave of 22 is divided by the seven
tones in an octave. That is:

22/7 = 3142857142857

So, if unity, or the three octaves that create unity, are divided by seven, the result
is the sequence of numbers that describe the How of energy around the enneagram.

The number 7 has a variety of unique features that were taken by early religious
authorities to be very meaningful. Of these, two in particular were important.
First, the number 7 cannot be derived as the product of two other whole
numbers (other than unity and the number 7 itself). Second, the number 7
cannot be divided by any other number (other than itself) to yield a whole
number. For these two reasons, the number 7 was known as the virgin number
and was seen as representing the Eternal.

THE ENNEAGRAM AND THE LAW OF THREE

We can now return to the details of the enneagram itself, Following the arrows
around the diagram, it can be seen that the flow does not include points 9 (or
0), 3, or 6. See Figure 8-6. These points have a specific function, which needs
some explanation.

Dividing any number by seven will reveal the presence of this same sequence, although it would not necessarily
scart with 1.
* See, for example, Michell, Dimensions of Paradise.

72

--- PAGE 89 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

9/0

5 4

FIGURE 8-6: THE TRIANGLE WITHIN THE ENNEAGRAM

As normally presented, points 9 (or 0), 3 and 6 are joined together to form a
triangle This confirms that they are related. In fact, the three points represent
the active-passive-reconciling forces of the Law of Three, which were discussed
in Chapter 3. At the start of the process around the enneagram, point 9/0
represents the initial stimulus from outside the energy circuit. Point 3 then
automatically represents the active force of the initial stimulus, but within the
energy circuit, and point 6 represents the passive force of that stimulus, again
within the energy circuit.

To complete the balance, point 9/0 also assumes the responsibility of the
reconciling force within the energy circuit.” The enneagram thus incorporates
both the law of reconciled opposites (the Law of Three) and the law of vibration
(the Law of Seven): it reconciles the spiral of evolution with the cycle of
recurrence. As we shall now see, the reconciliation comes about as a result of
the response to information shocks.

If we continue to use the analogy of the tonic sol-fa, the note Do occurs at point
9/0 and starts the cyclical process moving. This can be viewed as the initial shock,
or the initial creative act. Successive points around the circumference of the
circle — Re, Me, Fa, etc. — represent the attempt of the system to transform its
energies into higher notes, or higher vibrations. That is, they represent the
process of evolution as a response to the initial creative act. However, the internal
dynamics of the evolutionary process are not smooth. The flow of internal

*Ouspensky, In Search,
© This is consistent with the argument presented in Chapter 2 ~ namely, chat the creative force also reconciles the
associated active/ passive pol

73

--- PAGE 90 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

energy stands at point 1 (or Re) after the initial shock, but then it jumps to
point 4 (or Fa). This jump is too much for the system, which then begins to
fade. In other words, there is an energy gap (see Figure 8-7) that restricts the
smooth transition from one level of vibration to the next.

First
energy gap

5 4
(So) (Fa)

FIGURE 8-7: THE FIRST ENERGY GAP

The movement between points 1, 4, 2 and 8 therefore exhibits a three-wave
pattern. Accordingly the energy flow drops back to point 2 (or Me). It is during
this drop — which traverses point 3 (the gap between Me and Fa) on the
enneagram — that extra energy, or information, has to be received. Otherwise
the process stops. The extra information shock is, in fact, provided at this point
by the active force of the initial stimulus at point 3. When it has been received,
the energy flow can jump to point 8.

THE PATTERN OF LEARNING

This pattern is the basic profile of adjustment that all self-organising systems
have to undergo in response to perceived changes in their environment. It
reflects the threefold process of:

1. The initial learning response to new information;
2. The consolidation and restructuring of internal response mechanisms; and

3. The application of new learnt abilities to the receipt of further information.

--- PAGE 91 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

In terms of the system's relationship to its environment, these three phases may
be denoted as being active, passive and reconciled. In the first phase, the system
responds dynamically to the receipt of new information. The system moves as
far as it can under its old structure but does not yet change that structure. In
the middle phase, the system becomes passive and allows external energy to
reorganise it and thereby create change. This passivity is usually marked by a
drop in the index being used to measure the internal energy of the system. But,
critically, the re-structuring cannot take place unless a higher degree of energy is
input." Finally, the system can adopt a neutral relationship to the environment,
adjusting quickly and easily to additional information as it becomes available.

This adjustment process mirrors the archetypal learning pattern proposed by
Henry Mills.» See Figure 8-8. Learning is a form of mutation as energy is
diverted away from the receipt of new information towards re-structuring the
internal automatic response systems. This automation of the ability to respond
represents the acceptance, or internalisation, of a paradigm shift. As a corollary,
the movement after this internalisation process does not represent true learning
in the sense of further structural adjustments — it merely represents the ability
of the organism to respond quickly and effectively to further information.

Ability
to use new
information

¢ Learning >< Learnt >

Time

FIGURE 8-8: THE THREE-PHASE LEARNING PROCESS

7 How a system accepts the need to change its structure, and is then able to do so with the help of external’ energy,
is not yet understood.
"Henry Mills, Teaching and Training (Macmillan, London, 1967).

75

--- PAGE 92 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The processes involved in this mutation are still not fully understood. Donald
Hebb proposed that the adjustment involves the transfer of information from
short-term memory to long-term memory. The former depends on electrical
impulses within the brain, the latter depends on the structure of the neurons in
the brain. Hebb’s specific thesis was that persistent electrical activity associated
with the receipt of new information eventually alters the connections between
brain cells and thereby consolidates the information into long-term memory.”

It is important to note that additional information received afier the learning has
occurred, and during the subsequent growth phase, is no longer treated as a shock
by the system. It is, instead, seen as confirming the validity of the context within
which it is placed. This phenomenon will be dealt with in more detail in the next
chapter, in the context of the behaviour of financial markets. In the meantime,
we can note that the main thrust of a bull or bear movement in a financial market
will take place when the market is newtral in relation to its environment.

THE SECOND ENERGY GAP

However, the logic of the enneagram reveals that there is a natural limit to the
process of environment-neutral growth. In terms of the three-phase learning
process, satiation and tiredness eventually set in, and a period of rest and
recuperation is required. See Figure 8-5 again. However, there is an alternative.
The environment may deliver an unexpected shock to a system." This requires
more than just a minor adjustment in the latter. There is, therefore, an important
distinction to be drawn between change asa learnt response to fluctuations in the
environment and evolution as a revolutionary jump into a different state of being.

This distinction is reflected in the fact that there is a second energy gap, which
coincides precisely with the missing semi-tone between Ti and Do", See Figure
8-9 below. This means that, in the absence of a new revolutionary impulse
between Ti and Do", the power within the organism is insufficient to start a
new circuit at a higher level on the spiral: it is insufficient to push it from point
8, past point 9, and on to point 1. The energy flow therefore reverses after point
8. It drops to point 5.

"Donald Hebb, The Organisation of Behaviour (John Wiley, New York, 1949). Interestingly, the process of
adjustment involves a temporary ‘forgetting’ of the initiating information.

“In the initial stages of a bull market, for example, the new information is placed in the context of bear sentiment;
but in the later stages, bullish information is placed in the context of bullish sentiment.

"This raises the very relevant question about higher purposes. A shock, transmitted from outside the system, will
simultaneously destroy the old structures and raise the system to a higher level of being. Hence that which appears
dad from the lower point of view, is actually good from a higher point of view.

76

--- PAGE 93 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

Secondenergy gap 9/0
Ss (Do)

(Ti) (Re)

(La) (Me)

5 4
(So) (Fa)

FIGURE 8-9: THE SECOND ENERGY GAP

This failure to bridge the gap between point 8 and point 9 of the enneagram
(i.e. between Ti and Do"), highlights an important feature of the Law of Seven
that is often missed. This is that there is a critical difference between the second
energy gap and its predecessor, making it more difficult to offset. Whereas the
first gap was easily bridged by the influence of the active force of the initial
stimulus, the second gap is protected from being bridged by the influence of the
passive force of the initial stimulus. The second gap is thus a great barrier. In
terms of our analogy with the musical scale, the system cannot jump from Ti to
Do!" unless a quality of energy that is higher than that of the initial stimulus is
received. Otherwise, the movement still remains under the control of the i
creative shock and starts to travel in the opposite direction.

This point can be better explained by looking again at the tonic sol-fa in the
context of the enneagram. The initial shock or creative impulse, Do, occurs at
the apex of the enneagram’s triangle. The system traverses Re, Me and Fa by
moving through points 1, 4 and 2. As already mentioned, the active force (which
is a function of the initial impulse) delivers the necessary energy to the system
at point 3, encouraging the system to rise to point 8. However, note what
happens to the follow-through from this point 3 energy shock. /t now assumes
the status of being an initiating stimulus (Do*) (see Chapter 6). Point 6
accordingly becomes the active force in the context of this stimulus (bridging
the gap at Me*-Fa*). This is shown in Figure 8-10.

--- PAGE 94 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Do

Re (1)

Fa*la Me (2)
(7)
Passive force Do*

becomes active

So (5) Fa (4)
Me*, Re*

FIGURE 8-10; THE PASSIVE FORCE REVERSAL

The next step in the logic of this process is shown in Figure 8-11. The now
activated passive force generates a new octave starting at Do**. The result is that
the retardation, or energy gap, between Me** and Fa** in this octave coincides
with the original second energy gap between Ti and Do". Unless a new energy
source is received at this point from outside the system, the energy flow will
have met a barrier z
along the growth spiral is thereby terminated.

nd will drop from point 8 to point 5. The movement up

ENERGY FLOWS, BARRIERS AND SHOCKS

The enneagram reflects the processes within a self-contained energy system. No
new energy is received by it, but the energy itself assumes different roles as it
transits through each complete oscillation. Consequently, an original creative
impulse, or shock, sets up a repetitive oscillation. The system will continue
around the circle of the enneagram unless, or until, a new shock from outside
the system can bridge the second energy gap between Ti and the higher Do".
This would represent evolution through revolution and would take the system
to a higher point on the open ended spiral. Otherwise, the system remains in a
cycle of recurrence.

There is one last point that needs to be made about the enneagram before we
move on. This is that, as presented so far in this chapter, the six-wave energy

78

--- PAGE 95 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE OCTAVE AND THE ENNEAGRAM
CHAPTER 8

pulse is shown separately from the triangle of forces. That is, the 1-4-2-8-5-7(-

1) pulse is separate from the 0-3-6(-9) triangle. This helps to explain some of
the theoretical processes that are involved, but it is an oversimplification.

Original Fa**

second
energy gap
Me** Do"/Do
Ti (8) Re (1)
Re** Fa* La Me (2)
(7)
Do*
Do**
N So (5) Fa (4)
Me*. Re*

FIGURE 8-11: THIRD OCTAVE ENERGY GAP

If, instead, the notes of the tonic sol-fa are placed diatonically around the circle
of the enneagram, the notes Fa, La and Do"! coincide with the corners of the
equilateral triangle. This is shown in Figure 8-12, where the notes are placed on
the circumference of the enneagram according to the ratios shown in Table 6-3
of Chapter 6. The result is that Fa coincides with the corner of the triangle that
defines the active force and La coincides with the corner that defines the passive
force. This means that, in the absence of an (internally-generated) shock at Me,
or an (externally imposed) shock at So, the energy forces at Fa and La will act
as barriers. This keeps the energy trapped in the circuit and the system cannot
ascend to the peak of the triangle.

The conclusions from Figure 8-12 are that: first, a clear distinction needs to be
drawn between the active, passive and neutral forces that drive a system, and
the energetic shocks that are necessary to take a system over an energy gap; and,
second, a system is receptive to transformational shocks only at very specific
moments in its evolution.

79

--- PAGE 96 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

9/0
Second Do"/Do
energy gap
Ti Re
Me
First energy
gap
6 3
La Fa
So

FIGURE 8-12: THE DIATONIC ENNEAGRAM

CONCLUSION

Mr. Gurdjieff thus used a very clear teaching tool, based on the Law of Seven
and the Law of Three, to demonstrate the forces involved in creating recurring
cyclical behaviour. This is something so much more than either just a
recognition of non-linearity or only a belief that external shocks create
vibrations. The message is that the vibrations are ordered, non-random,
processes, and that they are an essential part, not just of biological systems, but
of life generally. This implies that — no matter how difficult it is to understand
— the Law of Three and the Law of Seven apply to collective human behaviour.

80

--- PAGE 97 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 9

THE ENNEAGRAM AND
FINANCIAL MARKETS

“Remember, everything in this universe is elliptical or circular in motion; that
applies both to the abstract and the concrete.”

W.D. Gann

“This law explains why there are no straight lines in nature.”

P.D. Ouspensky

SELF-ORGANISING SYSTEMS

Before proceeding further, it may be useful to takea detour away from esoteric
literature into the arena of scientific research and practical application. The
ultimate purpose of this book is to establish whether the possible existence of
hitherto unrecognised natural laws can actually be applied to human behaviour
— particularly collective human behaviour. We therefore need to establish a
bridge between abstruse ideas that, as yet, have no grounding in fact and areas
of human behaviour that cari be measured in same way: For example, can the
oscillations that are intrinsic to the enneagram be found in financial market
speculation or in economic activity?

At this stage, therefore, it may be useful to introduce some ideas from modern
systems and behavioural theory and then consider the characteristics of oscillations
in financial markets. This should ultimately provide the basis for ditect comparison

--- PAGE 98 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

of theoretical vibrations ~ as derived from St. Matthew's Gospel, Beelzebub’ Tales,
and Tunnel — with the reality of price movements in markets.

Modern researchers are very familiar with the idea that the universe is a hierarchy
of competence and power, which utilises a dynamic two-way relationship
between the higher and lower levels. Within this view, every level of the universe
exerts a controlling influence over its subordinate parts, including the damping
down of anarchic fluctuations; yet every part contributes to the nature of the
level above it, including the evolution of the higher level through un-damped
(or increasing) oscillations generated from below.

The direct inference is that each level of the hierarchy is something very much
greater than the sum of its parts: quality is, in some way, derived from quantity.
This quality is reflected in the sel/f-organising ability of each element in the
hierarchical structure, and in the responsiveness and adaptability of these elements
to changes in their environment. The central characteristic’ of a self-organising
system is its ability to use negative feedback loops to transmit information:
throughout the hierarchy — both horizontally (on the same level) and vertically
(between levels).

GREATER WHOLES

The problem is that the cause of this self-organising ability is, as yet, not generally
recognised. Its existence is evidenced by the presence of order; and the evidence
is more convincing the less likely it is that order exists in the first place. But
quantitative science cannot yet bring itself to suggest that some form of
unknown (super-natural, or sub-quantifiable) power is involved. Consequently,
scientific debate recognises the resu/t of the energies involved, without necessarily
dealing with the source of those energies. The cause of self-organisation remains,
for most, a mysterious fact of life.

Nevertheless, it is at least a useful working hypothesis to postulate that the source
of self-organisation may be some form of pervasive energy with which we are
not yet familiar. Ancient traditions — which were very well aware of the
equilibrating forces in the universe — allocated to this energy the attribute of
consciousness, albeit not in the way that it arises in the human brain. If correct,

"Batson, Mind and Narure. in this seminal book, Bateson observed five character
or of mental processes. These are:
1, Self-organising systems are aggregates of interacting parts;
2. The interaction is triggered by difference;
3. Self-organising systems require an input of ene
4, They use negative feedback loops; and
5. Each stage in any feedback loop transforms information,
Thid. Information is defined as “change which makes a change”.

is of sel organising systems,

82

--- PAGE 99 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

it follows that the more closely that human perception is aligned to greater
wholes, the more closely can it approach this mysterious energy, or force.’ This
alignment — or widening — of perception may be viewed in either, or both, of
two ways: first, it may be obtained by expanding consciousness to embrace ever-
greater units of self-organisation; second, it may simply be recognised by
accepting the implications of the dynamic stability of revealed life processes.

Whether or not the source of self-organisation can be experienced directly is
not strictly relevant here. However, the effects of its power — in terms,
particularly, of control of its lower levels — are continuously available for
observation and repeated verification. The fact is that, from the perspective of
higher levels of the hierarchy, the lower levels are highly organised and are
responsive to apparently simple laws. For example, in a sample of blood, a white
blood cell may appear to be a separate entity and its movements may appear to
be random; but in its natural environment, the same cell would be completely
responsive to the body’s survival needs. The simple law is: if the body is invaded
by a threatening organism, the white blood cell — as the body's agent — will
attempt to destroy it.

The really important point in the current context — and the idea that represents
the greatest challenge to economic theorists — is that human beings themselves
are also subject to controlling forces from higher-level groupings. That is, we
each have a self-assertive tendency (a drive towards individuality) but we also all
have an integrative tendency (a drive to take part in greater wholes).:

On the one hand, therefore, we each perceive ourselves as being independent,
unique and therefore important. But, on the other hand, we are continually
being influenced by social pressures that treat us as being dependent,
undifferentiated and therefore dispensable. As a result, we are continually being
presented with a choice (whether actual or metaphorical) between creative
isolation and unconscious immolation. We are, each of us, caught between
opposite polarities that can either stimulate us to the greatest achievements in
art and science or sweep us to revolution and war.

COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOUR

The central fact that emerges from modern neuro-scientific research is that there
is an observable form of order in collective behaviour that co-exists with — or
overrides — the otherwise non-predictable behaviour of individuals.: We are social

‘Wilber, Atman Project
chur Koestler, Janus: A Summing Up (Hutchinson, London, 1978).
The evidence can be regarded as more convincing the less likely itis that order exists in the frst place.

83

--- PAGE 100 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

beings; this is a function not just of rational choice, but also of evolutionary
necessity. Most of us need contact with others both to validate the mental
construct of the ego and to enhance our chances of personal survival. In the
business and investment world, the latter is essential.

We are literally programmed to rely on others to provide us with information
that we cannot get directly for ourselves.’ We are, therefore, programmed to be
open and vulnerable to the reactions of others so that any new information can
quickly be absorbed through the emotional brain. Necessarily and constantly —
and unconsciously as well as consciously — we scan the behavioural patterns of
others to see what, if anything, is changing.

This implies that the personal ego — the sense of self — has a weakness in its
structure: it has to remain permeable to collective needs in order to deal with
an actual or perceived threat. Under normal circumstances, there is always some
degree of group influence, but under conditions of immediate threat or of
prolonged stress, the ego boundaries can collapse completely, and allow the
psyche to be overrun by simple group objectives and beliefs. This latter is the
primary process associated with major social, economic and/or political change.
It creates single-minded tribal groups whose fanatical members have the power
to destroy actual and imagined enemies. The psychological and physical havoc
wreaked by such groups — which on a smaller scale are crowds — helps to break
down the old social orders and provides the raw material for the new ones to
emerge: It is a process that oscillates between the polarities of fission and fusion.

Measuring collective behaviour

This is all well and good, but the next question is, how can group behaviour
actually be quantified? Noise levels and numbers involved might be one way
forward. However, the problem becomes even more insoluble when the group
is not actually physical, but is instead widely dispersed. How, for example, can
the integrative force of patriotism be measured?

The starting point is to recognise that coherent collective groups (hereafter, for
simplicity, crowds) are psychological phenomena, not physical ones. Membership
of a crowd is determined, not by a physical presence, but by a willingness to
accept the crowd's belief system uncritically and by a willingness to identify with
other crowd members. In this way alternative points of view are filtered out and

"See, for example, Albert Bandura, Social Learning Theory (General Learning Press, New York, 197)
Neumann, Depth Pychology. The only defence against this problem is active self-awareness, which broadens and

strengthens the ego boundaries. It is my belief that Mr. Gann’s success was partly related to his pursuit of self-

awareness. See Gann, The Magic Word.

* Social groupings are an essential part of the human condition, because they facilitate co-operation. However, itis

also arguable that crowed behaviour (in all its forms) is basically a reflection of humankind’s inherent inability to

evolve to high:

levels of consciousness.

--- PAGE 101 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

the rational thought processes of participants are effectively suppressed. There
is a diminution of awareness and responsibility and personal freedom is
sacrificed to the purposes of the crowd.» In such a condition, crowd members
are very responsive to instructions from the crowd leadership, which acts as the
catalyst for crowd activity.

In this context, one of the very best areas to research is financial markets. Not
only do such markets develop a distinct crowd mentality, but the behaviour of
the crowd can be researched — and then tracked in real time — by movements in
explicit and readily available activity indicators such as asset prices, and by
movements in certain energy indicators such as trading volumes.

A financial crowd’s belief system relates to views about the future direction of
price movements: the bullish crowd thinks that prices will rise; the bearish crowd
thinks that prices will fall. Having adopted a particular belief system, all that
each crowd member will then tend to concentrate on (at first sub-consciously
and then increasingly consciously) is the actual movement in prices. This is,
quite simply, because it is the movement in prices that determines the success or
otherwise of a trading position — not the quality of the so-called rational analysis
that preceded it. Accordingly, rising prices encourage bulls and falling prices
encourage bears." In this way, moving prices fulfil the /eadership function in a
financial market crowd: the crowd chases the prevailing trend because that is
what they are effectively being told to do by a linear projection of the most
recent move in prices."

Constraints on rational decision-making

Hence, crowd psychology ensures that the ability of investors to arrive at
independent decisions waxes and wanes over the course of a bull/bear life cycle.
At major turning points in markets, the crowd-mind is at its most effective. The
majority of investors will still be prepared to buy as a market approaches its
peak; while the majority of investors will still want to sell as a market nears its
trough. At these turning points, the integrative force operating within the crowd
will be strong and will ensure that individuals are experiencing minimal fear
towards the prevailing trend. In effect, the crowd has become complacent.

Conversely of course, as a new price trend emerges, the new crowd is in its
infancy. Hence its grip on individuals is very weak and profitable positions will

*Gustave le Bon, Piychologie des Fowles. Reprinted as The Crowd (Macmillan, New York, 1922).

"As a result, itis possible for people to commit all sorts of crimes that, as individuals, they would not even
contemplate.

"This, of course, directly contradicts traditional economic theory, which only allows for changes in net demand co
influence prices, not for prices to influence net demand, However, the two-way feedback mechanism, which
actually occurs in the price-demand relationship, is a natural characteristic of life.

" Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets

85

--- PAGE 102 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

tend to be closed off very quickly. Not surprisingly, therefore, there is often a
prolonged period of price volatility before a new trend is clearly seen to emerge.
The integrative tendency of the new crowd will be weak and the fear about the
re-emergence of the old trend will be high.

FINANCIAL MARKET DYNAMICS

In Forecasting Financial Markets, | argued that, because moving prices generate
a crowd-type environment, every financial market has natural metabolic price
oscillations with three observable characteristics:

1. They have regular periodicities;
2. They each have a basic pattern; and

3. They each contain segmented price movements that are mathematically
related to each other. I called this matrix of phenomena the price pulse.

The basic concepts involved may be demonstrated by the use of a very simple
model that combines the influence of rhythmic oscillations with the operation of
a spiral. In Figure 9-1, the change in financial asset prices is related to a notional
index of investor sentiment (such as, for example, the ratio of bulls to bears).

Plus

Investor
sentiment

Prices falling

Minus

FIGURE 9-1: THE PRICE-SENTIMENT LIMIT CYCLE

"bid,
“Ibid.

86

--- PAGE 103 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

Above the horizontal line, prices are rising in absolute terms; below the line,
they are falling. The two-way relationship between prices and sentiment is
expressed by a construct known as a limit cycle.» Such a cycle describes the co-
evolution through time of two inter-dependent variables. As shown, this cycle
is biased to the right. Hence, during the main part of a trend, price changes and
sentiment will move together, with no clear-cut direction of causation; moving
prices stimulate investor activity and investor activity stimulates price
movements, At turning points, however, the relationship: bréaks down.
Changing prices cannot stimulate further investor involvement because the
market has become overbought or oversold. Technical analysts will note the
divergence and call it a non-confirmation.

Information shocks and re-tests

However — and this is crucial — behaviour does not stay on the limit cycle. As
profit-taking develops (whether by closing longs or shorts), prices change
direction and a shock — specifically, an information shock — is delivered to the
limit cycle system. See Figure 9-2. This is the sort of behaviour that is easily
recognisable during a financial market crash, but is less noticeable under normal
circumstances. Nevertheless, it is ubiquitous: it occurs at all levels of the market's
hierarchy of cycles.

Plus

Investor
sentiment

Minus

FIGURE 9-2: THE SHOCK-INDUCED SPIRAL

TA limit cycle Ws defined as the periodic oscillation between two variables and is represented by a dosed non-linear
path, See, for example, D.W. Jordan and P. Smith, Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations (Oxford University
Press, Oxford, UK, 1977)

87

--- PAGE 104 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Next, the shock sets up a series of potentially destabilising oscillations, caused
by negative feedback. These oscillations translate into a spiral that continues
until the self-organising limit cycle processes re-assert themselves. See Figure 9-
2 again. This spiral movement actually involves a re-test of the price levels from
which the shock occurred. It may therefore occur either in a falling market (as
shown in Figure 9-2) or it may occur in a rising market (not shown).

Such re-tests may, in fact, involve a new high in a bull market, or a new low in
a bear market, depending on the strength of the limit cycles operating at the
next higher level in the hierarchy. Whether it does or not, however, it is not
normally accompanied by a strong improvement in the indicators of investor
sentiment. This is also a non-confirmation, but it is much the more powerful of
the two types of divergence because the subsequent move will be a dynamic
thrust in the direction indicated by the limit cycle.

Three-phase movements

What emerges from this brief consideration of market dynamics is that price
movements — in terms of both momentum and level — are likely to evolve in
three-wave patterns. A bull move will start with bears closing positions in an
oversold market. This is the information shock that the market will have to
absorb. Prices advance further as rising momentum encourages additional bear
closing. Nevertheless, a point will come where the short-term traders will judge
that the market has travelled far enough. Prices start to pull back, and there will
be a surge in short-term selling as traders attempt to take their profits.
Consequently, a ‘retest’ of the low occurs.

It is during this retest that market participants will start to consider the
possibility that a reversal might actually be occurring. In other words, the retest
of the low corresponds to the absorption stage of the learning process. There
need not be an active restructuring of trading and investment positions, and
prices may even move out to new highs. The important development is that the
certainty of the bear trend has been undermined and that some degree of doubt
will have crept in. Consequently, market participants will be just that much
more willing to reverse their bear positions and open bull positions when prices
start to recover again. The learning has been done; all that is required is for the
market to lead the way.

This process will, of course, be reversed in a bear trend, or in a correction within
a bull trend. That is to say falling markets, too, will exhibit a basic three-wave
profile. Hence, financial markets can be seen as an oscillating process that moves
between extremes of overbought and oversold. Each swing is an outward
expression of an inner process that moves through the sequence of: information
shock, information absorption and information application. The result is the
cycle pattern shown in Figure 9-3. This is the price pulse.

88

--- PAGE 105 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
CHAPTER 9

Price

Time
FIGURE 9-3: THE PRICE PULSE

The extraordinary fact is that the price pulse — which represents the shape of a cycle
ina particular aspect of collective human behaviour — exactly matches the pattern
of oscillation that evolves from Mr. Gurdjieff’s enneagram. See Chapter 8.

This conclusion has consequences that are potentially profound. Mr. Gurdjieff
maintained the enneagram was “the fundamental hieroglyph of a universal
language” and “a schematic diagram of perpetual motion”. He argued that it
contained “the eternal laws of the universe” and that if a person truly
understands something, then he or she should be able to put it into the
enneagram. Hence, if the pattern of the price pulse — or enneagram — holds true
within the context of financial markets, it is likely that it also holds true for
economic activity, cultural evolution, and even the rise and fall of civilisations.
The basic points are:

1. The pattern is universal, so it can apply to all sorts of processes ranging
from psychological dynamics to biological systems; and

2. The cycle pattern is fractal, such that it reproduces itself at all levels of
the hierarchy and over multiple time frames.”

We shall be looking at the presence of this pattern in collective human behaviour
in later chapters. At this point, however, it will be useful to register that the

"See Benoit Mandelbrot, The Fractal Geomerry of Nature (Freeman, New York, 1977),

© This fact is not intuitively obvious. However, observers such as Ralph Nelson Elliott have been able to catalogue
a strictly limited number of price patterns in financial markets, Ralph Nelson Elliott, The Wave Principle (Elliott,
New York, 1938). Reprinted in Robert R, Prechter (Ed.), The Major Works of RIN. Elliott (New Classics Library,
New York, 1980).

89

--- PAGE 106 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

pattern does indeed exist in financial markets. Figure 9-4 shows the profile of
the 3.5-year cycle in the Dow Jones Industrial Average." The cycle is tracked in
terms of six-month percentage rates of change in closing prices. Each beat of
the cycle inevitably varies in terms of time elapse from the average, so the shorter
cycles have been mathematically stretched to match the time elapse of the
longest cycle in the matrix. Then, 18 beats of the cycle — starting in November
1946 and ending in February 2009 — have been averaged together and compared
with an ideal cycle.

The ideal cycle deduced from the enneagram/price pulse is as shown by the
dashed line in Figure 9-4. The upswing (denoted 1-2-3) peaks about 50% of
the way along the length of the cycle, the downswing (A-B-C) ends with a deep
low, and the intra-cycle lows at the end of waves 2 and A impact at around 33%
and 66% of the way into the cycle. In reality, each beat of the cycle will have its
own unique characteristics, but it is quite clear that the average of all 18 beats
produces a pattern that is consistent with the ideal.

3.5-Year Cycle in the DJ Industrial Average
(Engmonty) ai
ara source Eeoromagie

‘Emonth % change

48 Rb HATA HAT IS BAT NH WB 6 0 Hw
Percentofeyde time elapsed

FIGURE 9-4: THE PRICE PULSE IN THE DJIA

However, the real power of what is being presented can be seen when the
evolving 19th beat of the cycle is overlaid on the chart (see Figure 9-5). This
beat started in February 2009. At the time of writing, the cycle is some way
from finishing. However, there can be no question that the broad swings of the
cycle are a sufficiently close match to the average and the ideal to know that the
enneagram/price pulse can be used for anticipating the future.

* The cle is often identified as a 40-month cyde, See, for example, Louise L. Wilson, Catalogue of Gyles
(Foundation for the Study of Cycles, Pittsburgh (Pa.), 1964).

90

--- PAGE 107 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE ENNEAGRAM AND FINANCIAL MARKETS

CHAPTER 9
Conrenteycle
Febo3 hm 0807 Feb10.— m1. «OctO.— Fabel. tnst Ore Feb? tant? cet?
Year in thi 1 A\
(Endnonih) } a0
‘ont source’ Eeoromagic
0 le
staata | 20
: ont
July 2012

Emonth% change
Gmonths change

2 moe Artewystpanern
é Herat cen crestor 4610 FebOR nscale: tomertme aes)

Percent of cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 9-5: THE 2009 TO 2012 CYCLE

CONCLUSION

The purpose of this chapter has been to establish a link (via modern systems
theory and the concept of collective psychology) between supposed natural laws
and mass human behaviour. If the evidence contained in Figures 9-4 and 9-5 is
correct, then such a link does indeed exist.

The Law of Three suggests that natural systems will always be either expanding
or contracting, and the Law of Seven — i.e. the law of vibration — suggests that
each swing will be characterised by a three-wave behaviour pattern. However,
for these two laws to operate together — in a coherent way that can be recognised
and anticipated — something profound needs to be acknowledged. This is that
there has to be some form of holding force that generates the processes of
expansion and contraction, and controls the patterns of the resulting oscillations.
So far, this force is not recognised by science, but it is becoming increasingly
difficult to argue that, because it exists beyond the boundaries of scientific
observation, and cannot therefore be quantified, it does not exist.

There is much more research that needs to be to be done but, if the conclusions
of this chapter are correct, we have the basis for an additional dimension to
understanding about collective human behaviour.

1

--- PAGE 108 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 109 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 10

WILLIAM D. GANN AND
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

“The great law of vibration is based on like producing like.”
W.D. Gann

“The enneagram is perpetual motion... [which] is part of another perpetual
motion and cannot be created apart from it.”

P.D. Ouspensky

HIDDEN PATTERNS

The claim that George Gurdjieff’s enneagram describes an archetypal pattern
of vibration is startling and intriguing. On the one hand, the enneagram is said
to be based on fundamental principles that are without antecedent. This implies
that we may have to accept that there are influences beyond the level of the
individual human being that we cannot yet access through the power of
discursive thought. Certainly, the Law of Three and the Law of Seven are not yet
overtly recognised by science. On the other hand, if enneagram-type patterns
can be found in nature, then Mr. Gurdjieff’s claims need seriously to be
considered. In the previous chapter, it was shown that these patterns can, in
fact, be found in financial market price movements.

I have argued elsewhere that financial market and economic activities
demonstrate the existence of a rhythmic recurring pattern. The argument was

"Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets

--- PAGE 110 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

that the basic three-up/three-down pattern that could be derived from financial
market indices and from economic data was created by collective learning in
response to changes in the environment. Furthermore, there seemed to be little
doubt that the phenomenon was more consistent with non-rational group
behaviour than with the aggregated decisions of rational individuals acting
independently of one another.

The name that I originally gave to the archetypal pattern within the context of
financial markets was the price pulse. This gave recognition to the idea that
financial market prices did not move just in patterns but also oscillated
rhythmically. As shown in the previous chapter, the price pulse is to all intents
and purposes identical to Mr. Gurdjieff’s enneagram vibration.

Italso turns out, however, that the most important version of the three-up/three-
down pattern may be one that has a pronounced bias in it. There are two reasons
for believing this to be the case. Firstly, Mr. Gurdjieff hid such a pattern within
the architecture of his book, Beelzebub’ Tales, having told his pupils that his extant
teaching enneagram was “incomplete”. Secondly, exactly the same biased pattern
is contained in the mathematics of “sign of the prophet Jonas” in St Matthew's
Gospel, and in the structure of William Gann's book, The Tunnel Thru The Air.

The fact that all three books contain a concealed reference to exactly the same —
very specific — pattern is probably of monumental importance. What is not clear
is the reason why the pattern has remained hidden for so long. One explanation
is that a researcher would need to have some sense of the object of the search. But
it is also true that it is first necessary to find the key that opens the lock.

THE PATTERN HIDDEN IN TUNNEL THRU THE
AIR

Given the importance of Mr. Gann's work in directly referencing St. Matthew and
indirectly referencing Mr. Gurdjieff, it seems appropriate to start with his
presentation of the pattern in The Tunnel Thru The Air. The clue about how to
find it came from an unexpected source — namely, a research thesis by Sophia
Wellbeloved: that dealt with (among other things) the way that Mr. Gurdjieff had
been able to include the influences of the various planets in Beelzebubs Tales, but
without making explicit reference to astrology.« Ms. Wellbeloved’s argument —
which was certainly consistent with her detailed analysis — was that those influences

*George Gurdjieff, quoted in Ouspensky, In Search
'Gann, Tunnel.

‘Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff: Astrology & Beelzebub’ Tales.
‘Gurdjieff, Beelzebubs Tales

94

--- PAGE 111 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

were implicit in the structure of that book. The question that immediately arose
was: could Ms. Wellbeloved’s idea be applied to Mr. Gann’s book?

The first edition of Tisnnel consists of 418 pages and spans 36 chapters.“ As a piece
of literature, it is tediously long and seemingly meaningless. It is full of irrelevant
poems and apparently inappropriate quotations — especially from the Bible. This,
however, turns out to be a clue, because the ad
to control the number of pages in any given chapter. The details of the pages per
chapter in Tinel are shown in Appendix 4. It is apparent that the number of
pages per chapter varies significantly, from a low of four to a high of 30.

ional text is used as an artifice

Figure 10-1 plots the number of pages in each chapter against the chapter
number itself. For ease of exposition, the chart includes some additional
information. First, the top horizontal axis is used to measure the percentage of
the whole book covered by each chapter. Second, a 45-degree line is drawn from
the lower left-hand corner to the point on the upper horizontal axis that is
equivalent to 100% of chapters. Third, a simple notation is added so that the
rising part of the diagram is marked 1-2-3, the subsequent (falling) section is
marked A-B-C, and the fluctuations within the interim (rising) wave B are
marked a-b-c.

Percent of35 chapters
0 6 2 uM ws 7 3 8 7% A MB 100
35 ~ “35
34 cry
3 3
3 3 2
rT a

30
2
2
2
26
2s
24
23
2
2
20
19
18
7
16
8
“
2B
2
n
10

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

2 A c

10305 7 9 43 15 47 a9 2 23 28 27 29 91 33 35
Chapternumber

FIGURE 10-1: GANN’S HIDDEN PATTERN OF VIBRATION

The information held in the physical structure of the book is inevitably Tost in reproductions that take no account
of che original typesetting, In recent years, insensitive alterations have effectively halted the transmission of some of
Mr. Gannis more profound ideas.

95

--- PAGE 112 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The result is truly stunning: it is a /e-biased enneagram-type pulse, placed
within a square. There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak. This is
followed by a sharp contraction (A), which would be an energy gap in terms of
an enneagram pattern. There is then a long advance (B) that divides into three
sub-waves (a-b-c). And, finally, there is a sharp fall (C) as the whole process
comes to completion. Within the overall pattern, it is noticeable that the
majority of waves themselves consist of three sub-waves.

The peak number of pages occurs in Chapter 12, which is exactly one-third of
the way through Tisnnel. So wave 3 peaks 33% of the way through the evolution
of the whole pattern. Meanwhile, the end of the wave A downswing is
emphasised. It is the lowest low on the chart, and it coincides with the halfway
point (i.e. the 18th chapter) of the book.

As presented, the 45-degree line in Figure 10-1 bisects a 35 x 35 square. The
line runs from the lower left-hand corner to the upper right-hand corner of the
square, and intersects the point where the number of chapters in the book equals
the natural extension of the scale that measures the number of pages in a chapter.
Hence, 35 chapters equal 35 pages per chapter where the 1-2-3/A-B-C vibration
reaches completion. The process is complete when the end of the cyclical pattern
coincides with a geometric boundary.

The emphasis on the square, plus the fact that the lowest low occurs exactly
halfway through the cycle, appears to split the cycle into two distinct parts.
Indeed, the second half essentially recapitulates the oscillations of the first half,
although the amplitudes of the fluctuations are significantly reduced. Hence,
the 1-2 base of the first half is repeated in the a-b base of the second half; the
dynamic wave 3 is mirrored in the slower wave c; and the A wave fall is echoed
in theend-ofcycle-waveC

At first sight, the use of a dyadic structure seems to discount the Law of Three.
However, a closer analysis reveals the presence of a threefold arrangement. It
also reveals the presence of the Golden Ratio, which — as we saw in Chapter 3
~ implicitly references the Law of Three. The details are shown in Figures 10-2
and 10-3. Firstly, the pattern contains three important swings (i.e. advances plus
contractions) within the main cycle. Waves 1 and 2 are identified as the first
beat; waves 3 and A are labelled the second beat; and waves B and C are denoted
the third beat.

An initiating shock and the Golden Ratio

As presented, there is some evidence that the first beat of the pattern (i.e. waves
1 and 2) has a specific role to play in the evolution of the whole pattern. Firstly,
it covers eight chapters (i.e. chapters 1 through 8 inclusive). The number 8 is

96

--- PAGE 113 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

almost certainly significant in this context because it references the metaphor
of a completed octave. This, in turn, transmits the message that the interval
between the seventh and eighth notes (i.e. Ti-Do) has been transcended and
that another, higher, octave has been initiated. Hence, the first beat of the cycle
can be seen as an information shock that then generates the other two cycle
beats in the pattern. This reflects the idea — introduced in Chapter 9 — that
living systems adjust to new information.

The second important piece of evidence that the first beat of the pattern is an
information shock of some sort is that the subsequent two beats of the pattern
are related to one another by the Golden Ratio, 0.382:0.618. Figure 10-2 uses
the number 1 as the origin of both the lower horizontal axis and the vertical
axis. If, however, the horizontal axis starts at zero, the presence of the Golden
Ratio becomes clear (see upper axis). The second beat of the pattern (i.e. rising
wave 3 and falling wave A) covers 10 chapters and the third beat (i.e. rising wave
B and falling wave C) covers 17 chapters.

This means that the second beat is 37% of the length of the second and third
beats taken together — i.e. (10/27) x 100. It also means that the third beat is
63% of that part of the pattern — i.e. (17/27) x 100. This division is as near to
the Golden Ratio as can be achieved using whole numbers. On the basis of the
arguments explored in Chapter 3, this suggests that the second beat of the
pattern has an active energy, and the third beat has a passive energy. This is
certainly consistent with the differences in the amplitudes of the vibrations.

Axis rebased to zero
0 2 4 6 & 10 12 4 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 98

” FH
A 382 0.618 s
2 2
u 3 x

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

Third beat
Chapter number

FIGURE 10-2: THE LAW OF THREE WITHIN AN APPARENTLY DYADIC STRUCTURE

97

--- PAGE 114 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

This does not complete the evidence that the overall pattern references the
Golden Ratio. Figure 10-3 shows that the length of pattern from the start of
the first beat to the end of wave b within the third beat is 21 units (see upper
horizontal axis), while waves c and C taken together cover 13 units.’ This means
that the horizontal distance from the start of the pattern to the low of wave b is
61.8% of the whole pattern — i.e. (21/34) x 100 — and that the horizontal
distance from the low of wave b to the end of the pattern is 38.2% of the whole
pattern — i.e. (13/34) x 100. Furthermore, the horizontal distance travelled by
wave c is 61.8% of the length from the low of wave b to the end of the pattern
— i.e. (8/13) x 100 —and the distance travelled by wave C is 38.2% of the length
from the low of wave b to the end of the pattern — i.e. (5/13) x 100.

Axisrebasedto ero
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 18 16 18 20 22 28 26 28 30 32 34

= 0.618 382 ¥

2 2
31 3 0.618 J 0.382 || 31
30 30

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

A b
First beat Second beat t Third beat
135 7 9 May 48 47 a9 at 23 25 27 29 31 a a

Chapter number

FIGURE 10-3: THE GOLDEN RATIO

Ie is clear that behind the dyadic structure of Mr. Gann's pattern lays a wealth
of detail that emphasises the influence of the Law of Three: the pattern contains
three inner cycles; the second and third cycles are related to one another by the
Golden Ratio; and the whole pattern can be separated into two unequal parts
that reflect the harmony of the Golden Ratio. This latter is particularly
important because it separates the volatile part of the pattern (i.e. 0-b) from the

These numbers come from the Fibonacci Series, 0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34,... etc. In this particular series each
number is the sum of the two preceding numbers, and the ratio of each number to the subsequent number tends
to the ratio 0.618:1. The Fibonacci Series therefore reflects the Golden Ratio.

98

--- PAGE 115 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

subsequent advance (i.e. b-c). This advance is the longest individual section of
the pattern. In some sense, therefore, the initial volatility establishes the base
from which a sustainable advance emerges.

The emergence of additional information once attention is paid to the detail of
Mr. Gann’s pattern is very important. The pattern is complex and — as will
become apparent — far-reaching. It is in direct contrast to the flaccid text and
weak story line within Tunnel. What becomes apparent is that Mr. Gann’s
pattern is a type of carrier wave: it contains within it a profusion of important
information, not just about the nature of vibration, but also about the
evolutionary patterns that are involved. These features of Mr. Gann's pattern
will be explored in more detail in Chapters 13, 14, and 15.

THE GANN PATTERN IN FINANCIAL MARKETS

The question at this stage, however, is: can the basic pattern that was concealed
in Tunnel actually be found in financial markets (which were, after all,
supposedly Mr. Gann’s area of expertise)? The answer is in the affirmative,
although it is not always obvious. One of the most dramatic examples of Mr.
Gann’s pattern occurred in the US Treasury bond market between 1981 and
1994, when inflationary expectations were being brought under control after
the appalling experience of the 1970s.

Bal US 10-Year Treasury Bond Price Index “
| (700-constantmaturiy yield weekly)
we Data sue: Fada Rovere Boa *

Sond incex

FIGURE 10-4: US TREASURY BONDS, 1981-1996

99

--- PAGE 116 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Treasury bond price behaviour over this period is represented by Figure 10-4,
which shows the movement in an index calculated by deducting the official
constant maturity yield on US 10-year Treasury bonds from 100. The period
started with a price explosion in the second half of 1982 and ended with a bond
crash in 1994; in between, prices were very volatile. The whole 12-year cycle
incorporated the shocks that were necessary to bring inflationary expectations
back under control, and those traders and investors who lived through the cycle
will readily attest to its brutality.

The price oscillations associated with the transformation of inflation expectations
should provide an ideal set of data for testing the veracity of Mr. Gann pattern.
In particular, we should be able to see where the pattern matches actual experience
and where there are differences. The raw price data in Figure 10-4 shows a distinct
upward bias to US Treasury bond prices between 1981 and 1993. We can partially
remove this bias by creating a 12-year (i.e. a 624-week) moving average of the
data and then tracking the divergence of each of the data points from a centred
version of that average. The results are shown in Figure 10-5.

Mp1 Apes Mar42 FebS4 IanS DecAS NovbE OC47 Sep-8H AugAD Ju190 nL May? Apr9D Mart feb 9S

108 106
43

10s i (100-constant matury veld, weekly) 105
A ‘ata rource: Faded Rovere Board

soe i ewan Hor year cenredaverage toe
f\ ttn

FIGURE 10-5: DEVIATION OF TREASURY BOND INDEX FROM MOVING AVERAGE

Mr. Ganr’s pattern is then overlaid on the adjusted bond index, with the
objective of matching the primary trends. There is an extraordinarily close match
between the expected pattern and the actual movement in the Treasury bond
market. Three waves (1-2-3) into a left-biased peak are followed by a sharp fall
(A), a long three-wave recovery (a-b-c) and a final fall (C). The pattern of

100

--- PAGE 117 of 225 ---

[OCR] WILLIAM GANN AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 10

vibration hidden in Tinnel by Mr. Gann is obviously very meaningful in the
context of change.

There are, however, some differences between Mr. Gann’s pattern and actual
behaviour. In practice, waves 1 and 2 evolved much more quickly than might
have been expected; the final downswing within wave A was not as weak as might
have been anticipated; and the end of wave C was much stronger than might
have been expected. This strongly suggests that the overall picture provided by
the pattern is more important than its precision at lower levels. Indeed, if Mr.
Gann's objective was to deliver a great deal of information in a relatively small
container, some degree of variability would be inevitable. As already mentioned,
we shall address some of these issues in Chapters 13, 14 and 15.

CONCLUSION

The important conclusion is that the divergences do not seem significant enough
to invalidate the overall correspondences. So, although every market cycle will
undoubtedly have its own unique variations, caused by contemporaneous
fluctuations in the wider environment, the overall cycle should exhibit a very
specific pattern. Hence, there seems to be a non-random process at work that
exerts some degree of control over how oscillations are going to progress. This
is directly at odds with one of the persistent claims of economic theory.’

The structure of Mr. Gann’s book, The Tunnel Thru The Air, seems to have been
very carefully designed to ensure the transmission of esoteric information about
a law of vibration. He was not explicit about how to interpret the pattern, or
even about what it was for, but his implied hypothesis was that collective human
activities — of which financial markets are a good example — are organised
according to this pattern.

We shall unravel some of the details in later chapters. For the moment, it is
sufficient to know that his version of the pattern is significantly more detailed
than those presented by Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew, and that the detail
meant something. In order to make this apparent, we first need to look at the
work of Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew.

"See, for example, Burton G. Malkiel, A Random Wall Down Wall Sireet (W. W.Norton & Co., New York, 1973).
Also, Eugene Fama, ‘Random Walks in Stock Prices,, Financial Analysts Journal (September! October, 1965).

101

--- PAGE 118 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 119 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 11

GEORGE I. GURDJIEFF AND
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

“The knowledge of the enneagram has for a very long time been preserved in
secret and if it is now, so to speak, made available to all, it is only in an
incomplete and theoretical form.”

P.D. Ouspensky, quoting G. I. Gurdjieff

BEELZEBUB’S TALES

Having established the pattern of vibrations as visualised by Mr. Gann, we can
now have a look at the same pattern as it was defined by Mr. Gurdjieff. It is
more deeply hidden in Beelzebub’ Tales than it is in Tunnel, which is consistent
with the fact that Mr. Gurdjieff was known to have made some of his important
teachings as obscure as possible — a process that he called “burying the dog”: —
so that students had to work hard for their knowledge.: However, this also means
acknowledging that Mr. Gurdjieff intended to hide the pattern within the
structure of the book itself, and then had sufficient control over the structure of
the book in its published form to ensure that the information was included.

Both these assumptions are probably correct. Mr. Gurdjieff started to write
Beelzebub’ Tales in December 1924 and the final page proofs were made available
in October 1949, a week before he died. The book was not written quickly! In

"That is, che whole dog and nor just the bone, See Smith, Gurdjieff
Sections of the book were read aloud to pupils. If they were seen to understand the ideas too easily, then the text
was changed. Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff Astrology & Beelzebubis Tales

103

--- PAGE 120 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

fact, it is known that Mr. Gurdjieff persistently wrote and re-wrote Beelzebub’s
Tales, although he appears to have stopped doing so in 1935. This left him with
another 14 years to find a publisher and finalise the proofs.’It is therefore entirely
feasible that having formulated a structure for the book that could be used to
transmit extra information, he worked towards creating that structure.

The second assumption — that Mr. Gurdjieff then had final control over the
structure of the book — is difficult to verify. There are bound to be some doubts,
given that the publishers — Routledge & Kegan Paul in London, and Harcourt
Brace in New York — had reputations to maintain. Nevertheless, the fact that
these two companies were willing to publish Beelzebubs Tales in the first place,
and in a very specific physical shape, implies that the publishers had some
recognition of its importance.

The physical format of the original edition is unusual. If anything, it has the
same dimensions as a personal bible: it is 42” wide, 6%” long and 2” thick.
The front and back covers therefore each constitute a 2 x 3 rectangle, which in
fara references the active solar = of male energy of 666» Finally, of course; it
is also highly unlikely that Ms. Wellbeloved’s research, which was mentioned in
the previous chapter, would have been able to produce the conclusions that it
did had there not been some form of pre-determined order in the chapter
structure and page numbering.

Beelzebub’ Tales consists of 48 chapters and 1238 pages. The details are shown
in Appendix 5. The whole book is divided into three sub-books. This, according
to Sophia Wellbeloved, mirrors the Law of Three The first book is 408 pages
long, the second is 402 pages long and the third is 426 pages long. So, although
not precisely equal, they are of broadly similar lengths.” However, the number
of the chapters in each book differs significantly. The first book has 28 chapters,
the second has 11 chapters and the third has 14 chapters. Furthermore, there
are significant va
ample opportunity for embedding patterns in a number series that tracks the
quantities involved.

tions in the number of pages in each chapter. This gives

TH typescript was apparently available in 1929-30, Alfred Orage ‘roneoed’ one hundred copies for sale to people
working in groups. See Nott, Journey Through This World.
«Mr. Gurdjieff would probably not have been able to make any major adjustments to the final page proofs, so we
cannot be absolutely certain that the structure of the book is a completely accurate representation of his wishes.
* See Chapter 2. Beeleebub’ Tale is considered to be the active psychological force ina triad of books. The other two
books are Meetings With Remarkable Men (the reconciling force) and Life is Real, Only Then, When ‘I Am’ (the passive
force). See Hayes, Infinite Harmony.
It also represents the Biblical ideas of The Fall,
Beelzebubit Tales

Ie is also worth noting that Mr. Gann's Tivinel has 418 pages in toral, of which 406 relate directly to the complete
1-2-3/A-B-C vibration.

sation, and Redemption, Wellbeloved, Gurdjieff: Astrology &-

104

--- PAGE 121 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

THE HIDDEN PATTERN

Ms. Wellbeloved’s research indicates that Mr. Gurdjieff used the structure of
Beelzebub’ Tales to convey valuable information about the influence of planetary
cycles. This is beyond the subject matter covered here, but the important insight
is that he did so by grouping the 48 chapters into sets of four. The reason for
this — which will be re-emphasised in Chapter 12 —is based on the importance
of the number 12 in ancient thought. This number, as John Michell pointed

out in his book Dimensions of Paradise, was associated with the gods, the zodiac
and the majestic order of the heavens. Researchers would divide any large
number that was associated with gematria and numerology by 12 in order to
see what else might emerge. So it is with the number 48, where 48 divided by
12 equals 4. Some of the relevant data are shown in Table 11-1.

Chapter number | Number of pages | Proportion of total (%) | Change in pages (%)

4 67 8 i}

5-8 1 7 84

9-12 22 25 100

1316 31 33 4

17-20 93 42 200

21-24 120 50 29

25-28 66 58 -45

29-32 166 67 152

33-36 84 75 49

37-40 208 83 148

41-44 274 92 32

45-48 94 100 -66

TABLE 11-1; PAGE STRUCTURE OF BEELZEBUB'S TALES; FIRST, SECOND, AND THIRD BOOKS

The relationship between the number of pages in each set of four chapters and
the location of that set within the book is shown in Figure 11-1. There is an
overall rising trend, interrupted by contractions. The trend can be seen as an
impulsive five-wave movement (1-2-3-4-5), with the second wave being a simple
correction and the fourth wave formed from an irregular three-phase pattern
(a-b-c). Financial market analysts will quickly recognise the overall pattern as
being similar to the one identified as being a bull move by Ralph Nelson Elliott

Next, the changes in the number of pages between successive groups of four
chapters (see fourth column of Table 11-1) are plotted in Figure 11-2. The result
is really quite remarkable. The pattern is consistent with the configuration that
was found in Tunnel (see Figure 9-1). The configuration is obviously different

T Michell, Dimensions of Paradive
"Elliot, Wave Principle. Reprinted in Prechter, RN. Elliot.

105

--- PAGE 122 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

in terms of the extent of the swings, but it is nevertheless a left-biased
enneagram-type pulse. There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak.
This is followed by a sharp contraction (A), which ends halfway through the
pattern. This would be an energy gap. Then there is a volatile advance (B) that
divides into three sub-waves (a-b-c). And, finally, there is a sharp fall (C), which
brings the whole process to completion.

Position of chapter grouping in the sequence
o 2: 2 3 4 5&5 6 7 8 9 0 1
300 300

250 250

2s | 225

200 200

vs

150

ws

Numberof pages
Numberof pages

3

100

1s

so so

2s

° 2 °
© 14 $8 942 13.46 1720 2124 2528 2932 33-96 37-40 41-46 45-48
Chapter groupings

2s

FIGURE 11-1: PAGES AND CHAPTER GROUPINGS

Pattern details

One point is that the enneagram pulse emerges clearly only when momentum is
used. However, there are also other aspects of the pattern that need to be
mentioned. First, if the horizontal and vertical axes are given the same-sized
divisions, the pattern ends when the width of the whole pattern is equal to the
contemporaneous height. This means that, except for the peak of wave 3, the
whole pattern fits into a square. It also means that the pattern ends along the
45 degree line drawn from the start of the pattern. It is noteworthy that Mr.
Gann's pattern also exhibits a squaring (Figure 10-1 in Chapter 10).

106

--- PAGE 123 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

Percentof pattern elapsed

ow mo 0 30 © 7 8 $0 100
25 p— 225
200 | 200
15 } 175
180 4 150

|

re Bs

gz) z

$ 100 | m §

a | |

Bas] a 8

By 23 8

A

a, Jo 8
25 } 2s
so | } -50

A |
74 c I 75
28100 pe rr ++ -100

BA SB 942 1546 17-20 21-24 25-28 2932 3336 37-80 a1-4d 45-8
Chapter grouping

FIGURE 11-2: MR. GURDJIEFF'S HIDDEN VIBRATION

Second, the peak of wave 1 occurs at 100 units on the vertical axis and the peak
of wave 3 occurs at 200 units. Meanwhile, the trough of wave A and the trough
of sub-wave b occur around -50, and the peak of sub-wave a and the peak of
wave B occur at around 150. The data thus resonate with a vital aspect of the
Law of Seven: an octave has an inherent tendency to double and to halve. In the
diagram, the move to 200 (which references a second doubling) takes the pattern
out of the square. But the breakout is only temporary; it is followed by a sharp
fall to -50 (which references a halving). Mr. Gann is well known for
championing the use of doubling and halving to anticipate turning points in
financial markets.”

Third, the peak of wave 3 occurs 30% of the way through the pattern and the
trough of wave A (i.e. at the end of the energy gap) impacts at 50% of the way
through it. This — unsurprisingly — resonates with Mr. Gann’s pattern, where
the wave 3 peak occurs 33% along the width of the pattern and the trough of
wave A occurs 50% of the way along it. The peaks of wave A and wave B then
occur 60% and 80% respectively of the way through pattern.

"See, for example, Gann, 45 Year:

107

--- PAGE 124 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The fact that the architecture of a large and complex book like Beelzebub’s Tales
can be made to resonate with the detailed body of knowledge that is embedded
within it almost defies imagination. It is certainly a testament to the genius of
the man who conceptualised and implemented the project. But this is not the
end of the matter.

The first point is that there is no evidence from the available literature that Mr.
Gurdjieff included the concept ofa left-biased enneagram pulse in his teachings.
The extant teaching diagram is invariably a centred three-wave up/three-wave
down pattern. It may be relevant, therefore, that Pyotr Ouspensky quotes Mr.
Gurdjieff as saying: “The knowledge of the enneagram has for a very long time
been preserved in secret and if it now is, so to speak, made available to all, it is
only in an incomplete and theoretical form...”*

This strongly suggests that the left-biased pattern buried in the structure of
Beelzebub was not just nearer to the truth, but sufficiently close to that truth to
warrant preserving for subsequent researchers. The second point follows from
this. Mr. Gurdjieff would only have ensured that this pattern was preserved if
he considered that it carried genuine information about the very nature of our
existence. And so it does.

The pattern in practice

Figure 11.3 shows the pattern of one beat of the (approximately) 10-year cycle
in output that has been operating more or less continuously in the US since the
American Declaration of Independence in 1776. The cycle is tracked here by a
composite index that is calculated by the Institute for Supply Management
(ISM) in the US. The index monitors changes in employment, new orders,
inventories and supplier deliveries.

In principle, an index level above 50 is going to be associated with an expansion
in manufacturing, while an index level below 50 is likely to be associated with
acontraction. The particular cycle beat being shown is that for January 1991 to
October 2001. It is thus a relatively recent cycle and it covers a period when a
revolution in information technology was providing a genuine low-inflation
impulse to the economy.

Overlaid on the chart is the pattern deduced from Mr. Gurdjieff’s book. There
are short-term fluctuations in the ISM index that are not present in Mr. Gurdjieff’s
pattern, but the longer-term parallels are very clear. There are three waves (1-2-3)
into a left-biased peak. This peak is then followed sequentially by: a sharp
contraction (A), a three-wave recovery (a-b-c), and a final fall (C). The seven inner
turning points occur more or less where they should and the amplitude of the
wave b downswing within the a-b-c recovery is correctly predicted.

TOuspensky, Tn Search

108

--- PAGE 125 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION

CHAPTER 11
Percentot yi time elapsed
0 1 6 9 12 16 19 2 25 28 M1 Me F740 4 47 50.53 56 59 62 6S 68-71 _74-7R A ME AT 90 91-96 99
a a
ao | moments ae aver é
= yes crayon oars ‘ata source: Inset fer Supely Management

Indexlevel
Indextevel

FIGURE 11-3: MR. GURDJIEFF'S PATTERN AND THE 10-YEAR CYCLE IN PRODUCER CONFIDENCE

In this example, only a single beat of the 10-year cycle has been used because
the purpose is explicitly to confirm the potential presence of a deep wave b
downswing. Had the average of a number of beats of the cycle been used, there
would have been a tendency to iron out the fluctuations in individual cycles.
One important inference is that Mr. Gurdjieff exaggerated the wave b
downswing in order to emphasise its presence, not to insist that it was always
likely to be severe.

A SECOND HIDDEN PATTERN

It might have been enough if Mr. Gurdjieff had left the pattern in this simple
and straightforward form. However, he obviously had a point to make. In
particular, there may have been a desire to ensure that such an important pattern
was going to be found. So — as if to ensure that a researcher using other
methodologies might find the pattern — Mr. Gurdjieff included the left-biased
enneagram pulse a second time in Beelzebub’ Tales. In this instance, though, it
was reproduced backwards from the end of the book.

One of the sub-titles of the book is An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of
Man and one of Mr Gurdjieff’s specific criticisms was that humankind perceives

reality back to front: reality is seen as fantasy, and fantasy is perceived as reality."

So, it would not be surprising if Mr. Gurdjieff had built on this imagery.

"Gurdjielt, Beelzebubs Tales.

--- PAGE 126 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Beelzebub’ Tales consists of 48 chapters and the first chapter — which, like the
last chapter, has a different, more personal, content to the rest of the book —
consists of 48 pages. This draws attention to the number 48 and could be a clue
to the relevance of the 48th chapter. Hence, if Chapter 48 has to be taken as
the start of a vibration, then we are almost certainly referencing a descending
octave (because it cannot go any higher!). This suggests that the octave should
end where the vibration halves. If we start at 48, the vibration accordingly ends
at 24 —i.e. with the 24th chapter.

Details of the pages in all the chapters and the relevant percentage changes are
shown in Appendix 5. Table 11-2 shows the data for the 24th to 48th chapters
in reverse order. The results are plotted in Figure 11-4,

Reverse chapter | Changes (%) |Reverse chapter | Changes (%)
48 400.00 36 0.00
47 833 35 95.45
46 25.00 34 450.00
45 -38.46 33 ~42.86
44 -59.38 32 38.24
43 -53.28 3 54.67
42 191.49 30 108.33
4) -18.97 29 56.52
40 “15.94 28 -417
39 38.00 27 84.62
38 6129 26 116.67
37 933.33 2s -B125

TABLE 11-2: CHAPTERS 24-48 OF BEELZEBUB’S TALES IN REVERSE ORDER

The configuration is not just consistent with the first pattern derived from the
whole of Beelzebub Tales (Figure 11-2); its wave patterns are similar to that found
in Tunnel (Figure 10-1). The pattern is that of a left-biased enneagram pulse.
There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak. This is followed by an
energy gap in the form of a sharp contraction (A), which ends halfway through
the pattern. Then there is a volatile advance (B) that divides into three sub-waves
(a-b-c). Within this advance, the first upswing (a) is particularly marked, which
is what might be expected from a momentum measure following a significant
fall. Finally, there is a fall (C), which brings the whole process to completion.

There are a number of features in this pattern. The first is that a significant
momentum low is formed halfway through the pattern. Moreover, it is lower
than either of those formed at the start and the end of the pattern. This unusual
element also occurs in Mr. Gann’s composition (Figure 10-1). Another feature
is that, after the initial surge away from the mid-point low (wave a), momentum

10

--- PAGE 127 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

drops back sharply again (wave b). Again, Mr. Ganm's pattern includes the same
characteristic. Mr Gurdjieff’s pattern reaches its peak 40% of the way through
the pattern; it then reaches its wave b low 70% of the way through the pattern.
This means that the energy gap and its immediate after-shock last about 30%
of the whole pattern. Mr. Gann’s pattern reaches its peak 33% of the way
through the pattern and reaches a wave b low 62% of the way through the
pattern. Again, the elapse between the top of wave 3 and the low of wave b is
not far off 30%.

Percentof pattem elapsed
© 5 41 a6 21 26 82 37 42 47 53 58 63 68 76 79 84 89 95 100
shee fe anlar it $000

Change in number of pages (%)
‘Change in number of pages (%)

A c

200 po

48 47 a6 45 44 49 42 41 40 39 38 97 96 95 94 39.92 32 30 29 28 27 26 25 24.23
Chapternumber (reversed order)

} -100

FIGURE 11-4: CHANGE IN PAGES PER CHAPTER IN REVERSE ORDER

An example of the second pattern

As with Mr. Gurdjieff’s basic pattern, the pattern shown in Figure 11-4 can
easily be found in the real world. Figure 11-5 shows the six-month momentum
in the price of wheat during the inflationary disruption of 1973/74 and its
aftermath. On the one hand, the economic and political causes of the inflation
are relatively easy to enumerate. On the other hand, the whole process can be
tracked in terms of a patterned oscillation.

The 1973/74 inflation was the natural response to monetary conditions that
had been created between late-1969 and mid-1972. The ratcheting up of

There is a hint here of the Golden Ratio, 38.2:61.8.

mW

--- PAGE 128 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

inflation expectations was then brought to a peak by the outbreak of war in the
Middle East in October 1973 and the consequent oil embargo. Surging oil prices
fed through to other commodity prices. By February 1974, wheat prices were
almost five times higher than they had been in mid-1972.

Eventually, of course, the whole process went into reverse. The rise in prices
obviously deflated real incomes and interest rates were raised dramatically to
deal with rising inflation expectations. Economic weakness therefore developed
in 1974 and 1975. And, as the US economy weakened, so did the momentum
in commodity prices.

dT May? Sep 72 tan72 Map 78 Sep-72 Jan74 May.74 Sep-7E 75 Mp7 Sep79 Lan-76 My'T6SeB76
3
o (St Louis No 2 soft re, Sbushel, monthly) “0
‘ota source: Ghbal France! Date
] een memento wt pe r=

month change

150
‘an 72 May 72 Sep-72 tan 7 Moy73 Seb 79 Ian TA May? SepTE lanTS May7S Sep75 Ian7E May76 SeD76

b
fee f Master | see folate f
FIGURE 11-5: MOMENTUM IN THE PRICE OF WHEAT, 1972-76

Inner timings

Set against this fundamental’ explanation — although not opposed to it — is Mr.
Gurdjieff’s pattern. Once the initial information shock has been registered, the
pattern clearly anticipates subsequent movements. First, the pattern identifies the
move in wheat prices between mid-1972 and early 1973 as being the information
shock that eventually resulted in the 1973-74 explosion in wheat prices. Second,
Figure 11-5 shows that the whole process can be divided into four phases:

1. Shock and absorption,

2. Price explosion and collapse,

3. Aftershock from the collapse, and
f

Recovery and cycle completion.

--- PAGE 129 of 225 ---

[OCR] GEORGE GURDJIEFF AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 11

The time elapses of each of the first three phases are approximately equal to each
other and the time elapse of the fourth phase is about one and a half times the
length of each of its predecessors. To put the same thing another way: with Mr.
Gurdjieff’s diagram, the first three phases are equal in time; the second two
phases last 1-1/4 times the length of the first two phases; and the fourth phase
is half as long as the total time elapse of the first three phases.

Consequently, once the time elapse of the combined information shock and the
absorption process had finished, it would have been possible to obtain a broad
estimate both of the pattern of the subsequent price swings and of the associated
timings. In Figure 11-5, the information shock and absorption process started
in June 1972 and ended in June 1973 — i.e. 12 months. This meant that:

1. ‘The price explosion and collapse would also last about 12, months;
2. The aftershock would last about 12 months; and
3. The recovery and completion would last about 18 months.

As of June 1973, the whole process was scheduled to end in late 1976 or early
1977. And this is exactly what happened.

CONCLUSION

Mr Gurdjieff’s book, All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of
the Life of Man, or Beelzebub’ Tales to His Grandson, thus transmits two patterns
that are not only mutually consistent with one another, but are also similar to
that conveyed by Mr. Gann in The Tunnel Thru The Air. These patterns seem
to be a reflection of a fundamental law of vibration. If correct, there are two
extraordinary corollaries.

First, a cycle can be identified, and its existence confirmed, by its adherence to
the pattern of a left-biased enneagram-type pulse. Second, it means that
collective human behaviours — including economic behaviour — are subject to
hitherto unknown ordering principles. Both these conclusions have profound
implications for economic theory and for economic policy.

The patterns need to be explored in more detail and this will be done in Chapter
15. First, however, we need to look at St. Matthew's original revelation.

n3

--- PAGE 130 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 131 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 12

ST. MATTHEW’S GOSPEL AND
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

“I believe there was a secret meaning...”

W.D. Gann

A MIRACULOUS SIGN

In Tunnel Thru The Air, Mr. Gann allows his alter ego Robert Gordon to register
the importance of “the sign of the prophet Jonas” within the Gospel of St.
Matthew, and to state that there is a “secret meaning” in the phrase “the Son of
man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.” It is, says
Gann/Gordon, “the key to the interpretation of the future”.:

The first point to make is that St. Matthew's text appears to contain at least two
dimensions of interpretation, depending on whether the analysis uses the
adjusted text citing the prophet Jonas (/ovac) or the extant text referencing the
prophet Jonah (/ova). Both contain information about the geometric contents
of the text itself. As was shown in Chapters 4 and 5, when the Greek text is
adjusted to include an apparently missing “¢”, the “sign of the prophet Jonas”
may be interpreted as containing a reference to an objective dimension to Time.

As I shall now show, if the text is left in its unadjusted form, “the sign of the
prophet Jonah” reveals the same pattern of vibration that was found in Tunnel
and Beelzebub’ Tales.

"Gann, Tionel.

--- PAGE 132 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel is basically divided into two parts: the first
(verse 38) sets the scene, with the Pharisees “demanding a miraculous sign” from
Jesus; the second part is Jesus’ response. That response is itself split into two
sections. The first section (verse 39) defines both the nature of those who are
asking fora sign (“an evil and unfaithful generation”) and the nature of the sign
that was going to be given (“the sign of the prophet Jonah”). The second section
(verse 40) then defines the contents of the sign (“For as Jonas was three days
and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the Son of man be three days
and three nights in the heart of the earth”).

THE LAW OF THREE

In the Greek text, Jesus’ verbal response consists of just 48 words.: A closer
inspection reveals that this response contains a number of allusions to the Law
of Three and to the Golden Ratio. First, Jesus’ response can be seen in three sections
of almost equal length: verse 39 consists of 18 words; the first half of verse 40
(referencing Jonas in the belly of the whale) consists of 14 words; and the second
half (referencing the Son of man in the heart of the earth) consists of 16 words.
On the continuing assumption that Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel is the
vehicle for genuine revelation,’ even these numbers appear significant.

Astarting point is the 18 words of verse 39. This 18 reduces to the number 9 (the
“ennead”) — that is, 1 + 8 = 9. This is the number of completion and initiation.
As shown in Chapter 3, however, the number 18 is the sum of the digits in the
number 1746 (the number of fusion) and in the number 666 (the number of the
active energy in creation). It is also a contraction of 1080 (the number of the
receptive energy in creation). These three numbers are related to one another by
the Golden Ratio, 0.618:1. The appearance of the number 18 is always going to
presume a reference to the Law of Three, the Trinity and the Golden Ratio.

The number 14 — which is the number of words in the first half of verse 40 —
reduces to the number 5 (the “pentad”) — that is, 1 + 4 = 5. This particular
number has obtained a degree of notoriety that is almost as great as that achieved
by the number 666. The misuse of the five-sided star known as the pentagram
has caused it to be associated with hedonism and power-seeking. However, in
its original usage, the number 5 had two very important associations — with
humankind and with the Golden Ratio. The former arises out of the parallel
between a man standing with his legs apart and his arms outstretched, so that
his 5 extremities — two legs, two arms and a head — are emphasised. The latter

“Aland, New Testament.

"This was Mr. Gann's presumption.

‘The number 9 is also the number that is most closely associated with Mr. Gurdjieff’s enneagram.
“This was used by Leonardo Da Vinci in his drawing known as Vetruvian man.

n6

--- PAGE 133 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

arises from the fact that the Golden Ratio ($ = 0.618:1) can be calculated from
a simple equation that uses the number 5. That

@=(1+V5)/2

The number 16 — which is the number of words in the second half of verse 40
—is the third number derived from Jesus’ response to the Pharisees. The number
16 reduces to the number 7 (the “heptad”) — that is, 1 + 6 = 7. The heptad is
known as the virgin number because it cannot be multiplied by another whole
number to produce a number between 1 and 10; nor can any two numbers
between | and 10 be multiplied by one another to produce the number 7.
Hence, the number 7 cannot generate and cannot be generated. This gave the
number a sense of being somehow introduced into the world of phenomena
from the world of the sacred.

In fact, the number 7 was traditionally associated with the measurement of time.’
It therefore seems to be no accident that — as was shown in Chapter 5 — this
specific verse within St. Matthew's Gospel contains an extraordinary insight into
the objective nature of time. The number 7 is also a direct reference — via the
seven tones in a musical octave — to the Law of Seven. And this, of course, is
another name for the law of vibration.

THE GOLDEN RATIO

The Golden Ratio — and therefore the Law of Three — is also embedded in the
number of words in Jesus’ response to the Scribes and Pharisees. First, the ratio
between the number of spoken words in verse 39 (i.e. 18 words) and the total
number of words in verse 39 and 40 (i.e. 48) is 0.375:1. Second, the ratio of the
difference between 48 and 18 (i.e. 30) to the total (i.e. 48) equals 0.625:1. The
presence of these ratios may appear to be no more than an interesting by-product
of meeting other objectives. Nevertheless, it is also true that the ratio 0.375:0.625
is very close to the Golden Ratio, 0.38:0.62. Indeed, 18 and 30 are the only
numbers that can separate 48 into two parts that approximate the Golden Ratio.

There are, however, three additional references to the Golden Ratio in verses 39
and 40 that‘are even more specific. Fisst, dhe sumiof theaymbolic values ofall
the words in verse 39 is 10,063, while the sum of the values in verse 40 is
16,359. The ratio between the two numbers is therefore 62%. This means, of

See Michell, Dimensions of Paradise. The number 28 also has an association with cyeles, via its relationship to the
number 7. The sum of the first seven numbers between 1 and 10 equals 28, and 28/4 = 7. The number 28 may
have been important to Mr. Gurdjieft’s book, Beelzebub’ Tales. See Appendix 6

5:1 and 30:48 = 0.625:1. Alternatively, 17:49 = 0.35:1 and (49-17):49 = 0.65:1; or 19:47 = 0.40:1
0.60:1.

n7

--- PAGE 134 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

course, that verse 39 has a symbolic value equal to 38% of the value of verse 39
plus verse 40."

Second, and as shown in Table 5-1 in Chapter 5, the value by gematria of “the
belly of the whale” is 2272, while the value of “Jonas in the belly of the whale
three days and three nights” is 5919. Consequently, “the belly of the whale” is
38% of the whole phrase and, by deduction, the rest of the phrase (i.e. without
“the belly of the whale”) is 62% of the whole.

Third, and again as shown in Table 5-1, the symbolic value of “three days and
three nights” is 2586, while the value of “the Son of man in the heart of the
earth three days and three nights” is 6834. Hence, “three days and three nights”
is 38% of the whole phrase and “the Son of man in the heart of the earth” is
62% of the whole phrase.

Each of these three calculations provides a direct reference to the Golden Rat
0.38:0.62 and, therefore, to the Law of Three. This is not only astonishing in its
own right, but also suggests that the analysis is on the right track. Attention is
undoubtedly being drawn to the relationships within verses 39 and 40 in general,’
and to the relationships within Jesus’ verbal response to the Scribes and Pharisees
in particular. We therefore need to look more closely at the latter. Table 12-1
accordingly shows the numeric values, by gematria, of the relevant words.

Word number [Value | Word number | Value |Word number] Value |Word number | Value
1 64 3 48 2 14 37 770
2 309 [14 370_ [26 770 [38 1510
3 a (is 3e3__([27 998 [39 55
4 96 [16 eer (| 28 65 [40 308
5 3e3_[i7 770 [29 354i Ed
6 45 [18 1528 [30 342 508
7 a «fB _ [nes [3 es _([43 2
8 383 [20 104 [32 on [44 a5
9 470 [ai 58 [33 770 [45 354
10 607 [22 Tos _ [34 516 [46 ai
7 709_[z 55 [35 70 (47 65
2 is _ [2a 308 [36 680 [48 m7

TABLE 12-1: GEMATRIAN VALUES OF JESUS' RESPONSE IN VERSES 39 & 40

T The accuracy of the Golden Ratio relationship between the gematrian values of verses 39 and 40 when the name
of the prophet is left as “Jonah” suggests that the omission of the letter “c” in the extant version of the text was
purposeful. It doesn't mean that “Jonas” cannot then be used for a deeper search. In any case, the numbers involved
are sufficiently large for the calculation to apply whether or not the name of the prophet is Jonah or Jonas. The
extra value of 200 assigned to the letter “6” does not make much difference: if the extant text is used, the ratio
becween the values is 62%; if adjusted text is used, the ratio is 63%. Both invoke the Golden Ratio, 0.62:1.

*Ie is worth noting again that William Gann, in Tinel, makes what should be Chapter XXXIV into Chapter XXXIX.

8

--- PAGE 135 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET JONAH

The first point is that verses 39 and 40 taken together consist of 48 words, which
parallels the 48 chapters in Beelzebub’s Tales. This means that important
information is likely to become apparent if 48 is divided by 12. This latter, it
will be remembered, was traditionally associated with the zodiac and with the
dimensions of heaven.” Furthermore, it is almost certainly not an accident —
and is therefore a vital clue — that the whole structure of “the sign of the prophet”
is made available in Chapter /2 of St. Matthew's Gospel.

Obviously, the result of dividing 48 by 12 is the number 4. This, in turn,
references the square (in particular) and the rectangle, both of which were
discussed in Chapter 4. The use of four dimensions gives stability to any
structure; and Chapter 12 of St. Matthew's Gospel is no exception. Table 12-2
shows the profile of the gematrian value of the Greek words in verses 39 and 40
when successive batches of four words are consolidated." Figure 12-1 shows the
graphical results, with the sequence of word groupings measured against the
absolute gematrian values of those groupings.

Word group | Gematrian value | Change in value
+4 1365

5-8 1222 143
912 1801 579
13-16 1662 139
17-20 3587 1925
21-24 1482 -2105,
25-28 2497 1015
29-32 1971 526
33-36 3036 1065
37-40 2643 -393
41-44 1470 “173
45-48 1971 501

TABLE 12-2: WORD STRUCTURE OF VERSES 39 & 40

The results are — again — simply extraordinary. The emergent diagram is a left-
biased enneagram pulse. There are three waves (1-2-3) into a very marked peak.
This is followed by a sharp contraction (A), which would be an energy gap.

"Tris relevant to the argument that the number 12 generate all the Important numbers in music and in harmonic
proportion. Hence, its heavenly properties. This contrasts with the number 10, which has unique properties in
terrestrial mathematics. It is highly unlikely that the chapter numbers and verse numbers in St. Matthew's text are
random, Chapter 12 makes direct reference to the number 12, which turns out to be very important for the
calculations, The setup for “the sign of the prophet” starts with verse 38. This may be a reference to ~ and therefore
an instruction to search for — the Golden Ratio, 38:62::62:1

“See Appendix 2.

ng

--- PAGE 136 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Then there is a volatile advance (B) that divides into three sub-waves (a-b-c).
And, finally, there is a sharp fall (C), which brings the whole process to
completion. As calculated, the cycle runs over only 10 of the word groupings,
thereby suggesting that the first grouping ends a previous cycle and the 12th

grouping starts a new one.

The pattern is, undoubtedly, the sign of the prophet Jonah.

Word grouping

|
‘ao00 |

3650

300

2980

2600

‘Total pematrian value

1850

1200

aso

14 58 942 1346 1720 2124 2528 2932 3336 3740 A144 4548

00 —-

‘4000
3300
2950

2600

1550
1200

450

soo

Total gematrian value

1458 912 1546 1720 2124 2528 2932 3336 37-40 148 A548
Word grouping

FIGURE 12-1: GEMATRIAN VALUES OF GROUPED WORDS

Importantly, the shape of the diagram changes only very marginally if the
gematrian value for Jonah, in “the sign of the prophet Jonah” is replaced with
the value of “Jonas”. The extra value of 200 applied to the 16th word in Table
12-1 translates into a value of 1862 in the grouping of the 13th to 16th words
in Table 12-2. The effect is only to eliminate the wave 2 fall in Figure 12-1. This
is shown in Figure 12-2. In a practical sense, therefore, it doesn't seem to matter
whether the name of the prophet is “Jonas” rather than “Jonah”.

120

--- PAGE 137 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST, MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

Word;

14 $8 942 1246 1720 2128 25.28 2932 1936 3740 ML4d ASB

oi ae hee
}

4000

‘Total gematrian value
‘Total gematrian value

— 500
14S 912 1816 1720 2126 2528 2932 3336 3740 Aad 4548
Word grouping

FIGURE 12-2: THE SIGN OF THE PROPHET

ST. MATTHEW’S PATTERN IN THE FINANCIAL
MARKETS

The equity crash of 1987

As with the wave patterns produced by Mr. Gurdjieff and Mr. Gann, St.
Matthew's esoteric pattern can only become meaningful if it actually exists in
the exoteric world. There is no question that it does. Figure 12-3 shows the
equity crash of 1987, as reflected in the UK’s FTSE100 index and in a six-month
percentage change in that index. Overlaid on the chart is St. Matthew's “sign of
the prophet Jonah/Jonas”. The pattern shows a three-wave rise (1-2-3) into a
left-biased peak that is then followed by: a sharp contraction (A), a three-wave
recovery (a-b-c) during a wave B advance, and an end-process fall (C).

There are three very significant points here. The first is that, while the timings
are not absolutely precise, the overall match between the predictive pattern and
the actual outcome is exceptionally good. This means that each stage of the
pattern was a natural development from what went before: the wave A crash
followed the 1986-87 bubble; the three-phase wave B followed the crash; and
the process was not complete until some form of wave C correction had

121

--- PAGE 138 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

materialised. Just the simple knowledge of this process would have been
immensely helpful once the shock of the crash had materialised.

Mass Rows May86 Nove Mays? Nov? Mp8 Oct May89—OWLaD—Apr90 0:90
ETSE100 8
(Weekly) 3 ©

2400 | Data source Bloomberg Fi

month’ change

Marts | Novas MayS6 NSS Mays? NS? Mapdd OER Mp9 OA. 90 Oct 90

FIGURE 12-3: EQUITY CRASH OF 1987

The second point follows from this. A bubble and crash in any financial market
is profoundly disruptive. St. Matthew's pattern therefore represents the insertion
of a shock into a financial market. So it can be seen as a symbol of new
information and the signature of change. In theory, the initial information shock
itself is carried by waves 1, 2 and 3 of the pattern. However, the actual change
process is only initiated when a collapse occurs. I shall be addressing this
phenomenon in a little more detail in Chapter 13. In the meantime, we can
conclude that wave A of the pattern confirms the validity of the original
information and reflects the start of the process of necessary adjustment.

The third important point is that, once the pattern has emerged, a system will
have been changed forever. Its deep-structure will have mutated into a different
format, and it will be unable to return to the situation that existed prior to the
impact of new information. In this sense, a bubble-and-crash episode is likely to
represent the start of a whole new era, rather than just reflect the destruction of
an old way of doing things. In December 1999, the FTSE100 was about 3.5 times
higher than it was at the end of St. Matthew's change cycle in September 1990.

122

--- PAGE 139 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

The bubble and crash in the Nikkei

‘Théseiobeerqations allow’us to duw.tome importanteondusionsaboutondol
the longest bubble-and-crash episodes in living memory — that of the Japanese
stock market. Figure 12-4 shows the pattern of the Japanese Nikkei Stock
Average, starting in 1973. There is obviously some slippage in the actual
performance against the expected outcomes, and the sheer dynamism of the
bubble suggests that it would be better represented by the pattern of “Jonas”
from Figure 12-2 rather than the pattern of “Jonah”.

Nevertheless, the formation underlying the whole movement between 1982 and
2003 is unmistakeable. In particular, there is a left-bias to the pattern, and the
surge into the peak is followed by a long three-wave move down into the end of
the process. There may, of course, be a larger version of the pattern operating,
but the current inference is that the process of change that began in 1982 is
actually over. This means, first, that a new era is already underway and that,
second, the 2003-07 advance and subsequent collapse are properly part of the
start of that new era.

1972 3975 1977 1979 2981 1983 1985 1987 1989 1991 1983 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2008 2011

~ : oo
Nikkei k
wit iets
woo| annette, so
- ai
_ In,
1. ml
i i
te

1978 1975 1977 1979 Y9H) 19K3 3985 1987 LoRe see1” 1963 1985 3997 19992002 2009 2008 2607" 2008 7011

FIGURE 12-4: JAPANESE NIKKEI, 1973 TO 2012

THE HUMAN HEARTBEAT

For completion, we can use the data in Table 12-2 to construct a chart based on
changes in the gematrian values of verses 39 and 40 in St. Matthew's text. The
results are shown in Figure 12-5. The vertical axis tracks the changes in the values

123

--- PAGE 140 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

when the text is grouped into batches of four words, and the horizontal axis shows
the associated word groupings. Again, the pattern is that of a left-biased
enneagram pulse, although the downswings are very much more pronounced
compared with those in Figure 12-1. What is striking about this particular
presentation is that it has parallels with the electrical activity of a human heart,
as measured by a modern electrocardiogram (ECG). See Figure 12-6.

The notation used by medical professionals to identify specific phases of the
heartbeat — P, Q, R, S, T and U — need not concern us here. But it is quite clear
that: the rise to P and the fall to Q correspond to waves 1 and 2 of the
enneagram pulse; the R-wave and the S-wave correspond to waves 3 and A; the
rise to T matches the three-phase wave B; and the final downswing from T
corresponds to wave C. The U-wave of the heartbeat is included for completion,
but it is only occasionally present and is therefore usually assumed not to occur.
The whole pattern is suitably left-biased, but the eye-catching element is the
amplitude both of the R-wave (which is very dynamic) and of the subsequent
S-wave (which makes a new low).

Word grouping
14 G8 942 1946 17.20 21-26 2528 29.82 3836 3740 ALAA A

2500

2000 2000

1500

1500

00

00

1000 1000

CChange in gematrian value

‘change ingematrian value

3500 1500

2000 2000

2500 2500

3000 3000
1458 912 1316 1720 2124 25-28 2952 3336 37-40 4144 45-48

Word grouping

FIGURE 12-5: CHANGE IN GEMATRIAN VALUES OF GROUPED WORDS

124

--- PAGE 141 of 225 ---

[OCR] ST. MATTHEW'S GOSPEL AND THE LAW OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 12

FIGURE 12-6: THE HUMAN HEARTBEAT

CONCLUSION

But what does this mean? The “sign of the prophet” was obviously considered to
be so important that it had to be given in concise terms, but in a way that hid its
true nature from the casual (and, indeed, not-so-casual) reader. But it seems valid
to ask how the full implications of the text could possibly have been known at the
time? How, for example, could a symbol hidden in an ancient text be applicable
to a modern index of collective human behaviour? Or to the human heartbeat?
In fact, would the sign even have been recognised as such, had its footprint been
detected in the non-scientific milieu that existed when it was written?

St Matthew's Gospel was written sometime in the first century after the death of
Jesus. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the exact dating of the Gospel,
with estimates ranging from 38-45 CE to well into the second half of the first
century." However, even if we take a later date, the work is at least 1900 years old.

As mentioned in Chapter 4, we cannot know whether the Gospel’s hidden
contents have remained untainted since it was originally written. There is, for
example, the issue about whether the sign given by Jesus is the “sign of the prophet
Jonah” or the “sign of the prophet Jonas”. On the one hand, the absence of the

7 There isa split between Catholic and Protestant researchers, The former tend to favour earlier dates: the latter,
later ones. Some German theologians go so far as to place the date in the early years of the second century CE. See
Jacque Eugene Jacquier, ‘Gospel of St. Matthew’, in The Catholic Encyclopedia (Robert Appleton Company, New
York, 1911). Part of the uncertainty derives from the possibility that the first version was written in St. Matthew's
native tongue, Hebrew. However, the Greck version is regarded as being canonical - that is, belonging to the rules,
laws and traditions of Chris

ity.

125

--- PAGE 142 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

letter “¢” in the name of the prophet “/aava” in canonical Greek texts allows that
some changes could have been made — whether by accident or design — to the
earliest versions. On the other hand, of course, the omission could have been a
purposeful method of drawing attention to an important piece of information.

In either case, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that a truly ancient work of
literature, which is regarded as central to the beliefs of one of the world’s great
religions in its exoteric form, not only contains a significant body of esoteric
knowledge but also is able to convey that knowledge in a small volume of Greek
text.” This is an extraordinary conclusion, given that the vast majority of
humanity at the time were uneducated and immersed in what might be called
pre-rational consciousness."

In just 48 words, St Matthew's Gospel references a series of geometric diagrams
involving the vesica piscis (Chapter 4), the possible objective nature of time
(Chapter 5), and a very specific wave pattern (this chapter). Centuries later, Mr.
Gurdjieff suggested that the wave pattern represented some form of universal
constant — the signature of the way in which change and evolution is transmitted
through a living universe, from the higher reaches of the cosmos to the lower
reaches of the micro-world.

The direct inference is that St. Matthew's Gospel contains a revelation that has
remained hidden for the best part of two millennia. Moreover, if the findings
of this book are correct, then that revelation includes a blueprint for the various
natural behaviours of living organisms that — even with a cursory analysis — is
consistent with modern evidence. The implications are truly staggering. Perhaps
we can take a few small steps towards unravelling some of them.

TPethaps there is more, very significant, information hidden in the text It is also worth adding that, in
conttadistinction to modern beliefs, ancient wisdom ~ as reflected in the importance of the numbers 48, 12 and 4
= seems to have incorporated a belief in the relevance of the Zodiac

“"Pre-rational consciousness is prior to formal operational thinking and propositional, or hypothetico-deductive,
reasoning. Itis likely to be based on the pursuit of archaic physiological needs, a reliance on magical images, symbols
and rudimentary concepts, and conformity with myzhical tribal belies, See Ken Wilber, Eye to Eye: The Quest for a
New Paradigm (Shambhala Publications, Boston (Ma), 1983).

126

--- PAGE 143 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 13

A UNIVERSAL PATTERN
OF VIBRATION

“The principle of the discontinuity of vibration means the definite and
necessary characteristic of all vibrations in nature... to develop not uniformly
but with periodical accelerations and retardations.”

P. D. Ouspensky

SECRET KNOWLEDGE

The conclusion from the foregoing chapters is that three very different sources
— George Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’ Tales, William Gann’s Tunnel Thru The Air and
St. Matthew's sign of the prophet Jonas — contained, in a concealed form, specific
patterns that had implications beyond the context in which they were presented.
Moreover, it is already clear that the patterns look very similar to one another.
In other words, all three authors were presenting their own versions of one
particular construct.

So, why was it considered important to hide this pattern? Mr. Gurdjieff was
very fond of, as he put it, “burying the dog” (and not just the bone): so that
people had to work for the knowledge that they received. Mr. Gann was
probably right in believing that, in 1927 when he published Tisnnel, the “general
public [was] not yet ready for it and probably would not understand or believe
it’s And the science of numbers and letters in the time of St. Matthew was

John G, Bennett, Gurdjieff’ Making a New World (Harper & Row, New York, 1976)
°Gann, Tunnel.

127

--- PAGE 144 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

specifically reserved for a small intellectual elite who would seek out hidden
meanings from holy scriptures in order to be able to confirm personal evolution
and higher cosmic purposes.

Nevertheless, even these explanations —as valid as they are— do nor fully address
the inference that the pattern is in some way extraordinarily meaningful — and
perhaps even dangerous. First, there is no obvious reason within the context of
St. Matthew's text for the pattern to be presented at all. The pattern therefore
emerges as a genuine revelation. Had people deduced its presence 1900 years
ago, they could well have believed that they were dealing with something beyond
the teachings of Christianity and therefore hazardous. Furthermore, I have
always felt that Mr. Gann (who claimed that St. Matthew's text was his source)
may have become concerned at some stage in his life about a potential misuse
of the pattern, and therefore spent the latter years of his life trying to bury it.’
His stock trading courses were cettainly good enough to be effective, but they
may also have helped to divert attention from the truth of what he'd found.

Perhaps we'll never know; but the most important possibility is that the hidden
pattern is a universal constant — an archetypal pattern of vibration that somehow
permeates the whole of the cosmos. This was Mr Gurdjieff’s contention.

THE PATTERNS COMPARED

With these thoughts in mind, we can now look at the patterns of vibration
provided by the three authors. In doing so, however, it needs to be emphasised
that all interpretations should be regarded as being only work in progress. An
attempt, after all, is being made to concretise something that Mr. Gurdjieff
explicitly, and St. Matthew implicitly, regarded as being a fundamental principle
behind what might be called “deep structure” processes within the universe. Any
such attempt needs to be approached carefully, and in the certain knowledge
that full answers will remain elusive.

Asa start, the patterns can be shown together, so that they can be judged visually
in relation to one another. Figure 13-1 therefore shows the patterns as they
emerge directly from their respective texts. It includes both of Mr. Gurdjieft’s
patterns as well as those of St. Matthew and Mr. Gann.

TThis is, of course, only an opinion. But ics relevant that Mr. Gann does not appear t have made a great deal of
effort promoting The Tunnel Thru The Air

128

--- PAGE 145 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

Percentot pattern elapsed
0 1 20 30 4 So 60 70 80 9 100
250 +

— . — 250
a From George Gurdjieffs Beelzebub'sTales ”
3 i

200

vs

150

100

5

so

25

Change innumber of pages (%)

Change innumber of pages (%)

1s

100 + ——-
14 $8 942 13-16 17-20 21-24 25-28 29-32 33-36 37-40 41-44 45-48,
Chaptergrouping

FIGURE 13-1A: THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

Percentof pattern elapsed
5 2 6 21 26 32 37 42 47 53-58 63 GE 74 79 84 89 95 100
1200 j—* “ f 1200

From George Gurdjieff's Beelzebub's Tales
1100 1100

1000 1000
‘ 3

Change in number of pages ()

Change in number of pages (%)

ee Be -200
ee ee ee ee

Chapter number(reversed order)

FIGURE 13-1B: THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

129

--- PAGE 146 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

‘Total gematrian value

4380

4000

3650

3300

2950

2600

2250

1900

1550

2200

500

Percentof pattern elapsed
o 1 2 3s 48 6 G7 78 89100

From St. Matthew's Sign ofthe ProphetJonas

3

24 $8 942 1346 1720 2224 2528 2932 33.36 3740 4148
Word grouping

FIGURE 13-1C; THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

Number of pages

Percent of 35 chapters
0 6 2 mh Mm 2 35 41 47 SS 88 6S OT 7% A Be OW

4350

4000

3650

2350

2600

1900

1550

1200

850

$00

45.48

100

From William Gann's Tunnel Thru The Air
3

A

1°35 7 9 41 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33

Chapternumber

FIGURE 13-1D: THE PATTERN OF VIBRATION

130

Total gematrian value

Number of pages

--- PAGE 147 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

Figure 13-2 shows St. Matthew's pattern compared with Mr. Gann’s, and Figure
13-3 shows St. Matthew's pattern compared with Mr. Gurdjieff’s primary pattern.

Pereentot eye elapsed
3 Patterns of Vibration
2) 0c to th. seal, ower) |

=

‘mumberol pages per chapter

Gemavianvalesof groups of four words

A

03 6 Oh me 2629 9

Percentof eye elapsed

FIGURE 13-2: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERNS OF VIBRATION: ST. MATTHEW AND W.D. GANN

Percentol eye elapsed
° s 2 a ra Pe ° ” ® 1
Patterns of Vibration
3 ns of Vibration |
20 4 me certs pater tn ee, omer an

ees
F, 3500

Gematianvaluesof groups of four words

° % » x0 o 0 © cy ” 90 00
Percentof cycle elapsed

FIGURE 13-3: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERNS OF VIBRATION: ST. MATTHEW AND G.I. GURDJIEFF

Figure 13-4 shows St. Matthew's pattern compared with the second of Mr.
Gurdjieff’s patterns — i.e. the one in Figure 13-1B. To help the comparisons,

131

--- PAGE 148 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

divisions of one-third, half and two-thirds of the horizontal width of the patterns
are marked out. In addition, the established cycle notation (1-2-3/A-B-C) is
applied just to St. Matthew's pattern, but on the understanding that it is
applicable to all three patterns.

Percent lptes
“i 3 Patterns of Vibration
2" a
H H
i" i
$ :
3 200
eu ;

Percentof cycle lapsed

FIGURE 13-4: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERNS OF VIBRATION: ST. MATTHEW AND G.I. GURDJIEFF

It is immediately apparent that the four patterns are essentially the same. There
are differences in the extent of the swings and, at one extreme, St. Matthew's
pattern is relatively simple while, at the other extreme, Mr. Gann’s is complex.
Nevertheless, all four patterns have a very specific locus at their core: there is a
rising three-phase (1-2-3) pattern into a peak, followed by a three-phase (A-B-
C) movement into a final low. The whole configuration has a left bias to it: the
wave 3 peak occurs about a third of the way through the pattern; the wave A fall
is very pronounced and occurs about halfway through the whole pattern; the
wave B rally consists of three internal swings (a-b-c) and is relatively prolonged;
and the final wave C fall is swift, but not as pronounced as the wave A collapse.

An anomaly

‘There is, however, an apparent anomaly that needs to be addressed. The patterns
are certainly consistent with one another, but they diverge from the
enneagram/price pulse patterns of Chapters 8 and 9 in one important sense:
wave B within each of the patterns consists of three sub-waves (up-down-up)
whereas the original enneagram pulse showed only one up-wave. How can this

difference be explained?

132

--- PAGE 149 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

One possible answer is that wave B of a pulse is modulated by the fluctuations
of an inner octave. Figure 13-5 reproduces Figure 8-12 from Chapter 8. It shows
how the corners of a triangle (representing the Law of Three) coincide with the
notes Fa, La and Do!" In the absence of an internal shock at Me — or an external
shock at So — Fa and La act as barriers that keep the flow of energy trapped
within the circuit. Consequently, after receiving the initial stimulus at Do the
flow of energy starts at Re and proceeds in six waves around the enneagram.
Within this flow, the move from Me to Ti corresponds to wave 3 of the
vibrations in Figures 13-2 to 13-4, the drop from Ti to So corresponds to wave
A, and the move from So to La matches wave B.

The important point here is that the notes Re, Me and So initiate inner octaves
(see Table 6-4 of Chapter 6). Each of these inner octaves will therefore exhibit
their own six-wave pattern; and, within each, there is going to be a drop from
Ti to So. It is this drop that would produce the lower-level wave b within the a-
b-c pattern that then constitutes the higher-level wave B. If the whole enneagram
pulse is lefe-biased, such that the rising wave B evolves relatively slowly, then
the drop might be very pronounced. This is reflected in Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern.

9/0
Second Do"/Do

energy gap
Ti Re

Me

First energy
gap

La Fa

So

FIGURE 13-5: THE DIATONIC ENNEAGRAM

The left bias and the nature of learning

The idea that the pattern of vibration is intrinsically left-biased introduces some
important considerations about the nature of learning. In Chapter 8, it was

133

--- PAGE 150 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

argued that the Mills-Hebb learning pattern was a three-wave process: there was
an initial information shock (i.e. wave 1 of a 1-2-3 profile), a period of absorption
(wave 2), and then a process of application (wave 3). The left-biased pulse now
adds a potential qualification to this process because it suggests that there are two
‘layers’ of learning: the first (which corresponds to the Mills-Hebb pattern) is an
inner adaptation; the second (which is the new insight) is deep structure change.
The point of difference is that the former involves taking an unchanged system
to its limits, while the latter means actually changing the system.

Hence, an initial information shock will take a system to its inner limits, but if
the environment continues to exert stress on that system, then the whole of the
original three-wave movement becomes an information shock which changes
the system itself. This is shown in Figure 13-6. The 1-2-3 advance in the first
half of the diagram represents the initial quantitative behaviour within an
unchanged system. The wave A contraction represents the shudder within the
system as it finds itself no longer able to cope without structural change. Then
the second half of the diagram represents the behaviour of the system after inner
qualitative change has taken place.

Maximum stress
with unchanged system

Maximum dislocation at
start of changed system

FIGURE 13-6: ADAPTIVE LEARNING AND SYSTEM CHANGE

‘Bateson, Mind and Nature, Bateson also included a chird adjustment — namely, genetic mutation in response to
environmental change.

134

--- PAGE 151 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

ANALYSING THE PATTERNS IN MORE DETAIL

We can now move ahead, and analyse the patterns in more detail. For simplicity,
the second of Mr. Gurdjieff’s patterns — i.e. the one derived from reversing the
chapters and associated pages — will be put to one side. The following analysis
therefore just concentrates on the patterns presented in Figures 13-2 and 13-3.

In what follows, I shall start with Mr. Gann’s version of the pattern. There are two
reasons for this. First, at a mundane level, Mr. Gann undoubtedly gave a great
deal of thought to the subject. In fact, Mr. Gann basically devoted a whole book
of 36 chapters and 418 pages just to expressing the pattern, albeit in a hidden
form. This is in contrast to Mr. Gurdjieff, whose 48 chapters and 1238 pages were
devoted to far more than just illustrating a pattern of vibration. Both are starkly
in contrast to St. Matthew's pattern, which was defined in only two verses
consisting in total of 48 words! It is possible therefore that Mr. Gann’s pattern is
a much more detailed version of those offered by Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew.

The second reason for concentrating on Mr. Gann’s pattern follows from this.
His attention to detail hints at the possibility of additional information. That
is, Mr. Gann’s pattern might include information that was not provided by the
other two. This does, indeed, turn out to be the case.

The Gann pattern

As discussed in Chapter 10, Mr. Gann's pattern is clearly divided into two equal
phases: the falling wave A finishes 50% of the way through the pattern; the low
of that wave is the lowest low of the pattern; and the low itself is formed by a
distinctive data point. Moreover, the second phase recapitulates the first phase,
although with significant differences in the velocities involved.

The second point is that waves 1 and 2 of Mr Gann’s pattern are much more
pronounced than the corresponding waves in the patterns imparted by Mr.
Gurdjieff and St. Matthew. Without this emphasis, Mr. Gann’s overall pattern
would not divide into two equal phases. In Chapter 10 it was suggested that
the structure of waves | and 2 indicated that they formed an initial information
shock from which subsequent oscillations emerged. These subsequent
oscillations consisted of two beats, or two sets of advances and contractions. In
the diagrams of Mr. Gann’s pattern (e.g. Figure 10-1), these two oscillations are
waves 3 and A, followed by waves B and C. On this interpretation, the whole
diagram consists of three oscillations, not just two; and this, in turn, implies
the presence of the Law of Three. It can then be argued that each of the three
beats might have a different function in relation to the whole: for example, the
first beat initiates a process; the second beat fulfils the stimulus; and the third
beat terminates the process.

135

--- PAGE 152 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The third point, in a sense, follows from the second. Once we start looking
behind the apparent rigidity of Mr. Gann’s dualistic pattern, a whole new set of
relationships emerges, which involve the Golden Ratio. At a very simple level,
and as was shown in Figure 10-2, Mr. Gann’s pattern is not just divided into
two equal parts, it is also divided into two unequal, but related, parts.
Specifically, the ratio of the larger part of the vibration to the smaller part is
defined by the Golden Ratio, 0.618:0.382. As described in Chapter 3, such
expressions of the Ratio distinguish passive energies from active energies. The
larger part is passive/receptive and the smaller part is active/generative.

The inference, therefore, is that the first part of the diagram in some way lays the
foundation for the energy of the subsequent movement. This could mean that the
apparently innocuous wave c of B is actually where the real strength of the pattern
emerges. In financial markets, for example, this might be where sustained (and
sustainable) action takes place. Where the resulting advance is highly speculative
learnt behaviour, the subsequent wave C collapse can be dramatic.

Squaring price with time

This conclusion is borne out by another aspect of Mr. Gann's pattern that relates
the Golden Ratio to the geometry of the square. Mr. Gann’s name has become
closely associated with the concept of squaring price with time, whereby
movements in price along a vertical axis are matched with the evolution of time
along a horizontal axis. According to the conventional interpretation, when price
and time become equivalent along a geometric 45-degree line (i.e. when squaring
takes place), a reversal of some degree can be expected. The big problem,
however, is that there is no obvious way of making units of price comparable
with units of time. It is like trying to match apples with potatoes.

One solution that is used by analysts is to note where a price low and a price
high have occurred in the past, and calculate the associated relationship between
the movement in price and the passage of time — i.e. the speed of the price
movement. This relationship is then represented by a 45-degree line on a chart,
with the axes adjusted to suit. The heroic assumption is that subsequent price
inflexions will occur at points in the future that reflect the same speed as the
original price-time relationship.

In practice, the technique works only erratically, ifat all. The reason that analysts
persist with it is an interesting comment on the belief that financial markets (and
therefore collective behaviour) are organised by an unknown form of order, and
the belief that Mr. Gann had access to the necessary knowledge. Both beliefs are
undoubtedly correct, but the mistake has been to take Mr. Gann’s extant teachings
at face value. As I have already mentioned, these teachings may have helped to
hide — rather than reveal — what he knew. A great deal of research still needs to be
done on the subject, but we can now at least shed a little more light on it.

136

--- PAGE 153 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

In Chapter 10, it was shown that Mr. Gann's 1-2-3/A-B-C pattern of vibration
fitted precisely into a square of 35 units by 35 units. In Figure 10-1, the
horizontal scale represented the number of chapters in the book and the vertical
scale represented the number of pages per chapter. Mr. Gann’s pattern ended
when the number of chapters (35) equalled an equivalent potential number of
pages per chapter (35). Since, geometrically, the top right-hand corner of a
square coincides with a 45-degree line drawn from the lower left-hand corner
of that square, this is where the two axes square off. Hence, if the vertical axis
represents price and the horizontal axis represents time, then price squares with
time in the top right-hand corner of the square. After such a point, quite
obviously anew vibration will begin:

The Golden Ratio and hidden energies

As it stands, this definition of squaring does not provide much genuine
information. It is an outcome of the way that the diagram was conceived and
then constructed, and so is as much an artifice as an indication of a genuine
phenomenon. The specific problem for analysts is that none of the inflexion
points within the vibration actually occur on, or along, the 45-degree line.
However, there is a much more profound aspect to the diagram, which not only
automatically deals with this problem, but also raises questions about the forces
at work in collective human behaviour.

In Chapter 5 it was found that, if St Matthew's “sign of the prophet” was taken
to belong to “Jonas” rather than “Jonah”, then it was possible to construct an
extraordinary diagram that seemed to relate the measurable processes of life to
some form of hidden energy represented by the Golden Ratio. Specifically, a
process ended when the measured active and passive elements, each multiplied
by 0.618, formed a square. This was shown in Figure 5-7.

Figure 13-7 shows Mr. Gann’s original diagram adjusted so that the origin of
both axes is zero.‘ This implicitly allows that the number of pages can start from
zero. Next, the vertical heights of the vibrations in each of the two halves of the
diagram (i.e. the heights of the two primary oscillations) are measured. Once
this is done, it can be shown that the pattern of vibration finishes when the
measured height of the /argest of the two vibrations squares with the energies of
both vibrations as represented by the Golden Ratio, 0.618:1. This outcome is a
directly comparable to that shown in Figure 5-7 of Chapter 5. First, the
maximum height of the vibration in the first half of the diagram is 30 units.
When this is multiplied by 0.618, the equivalent horizontal value is 18.54 units.
Second, the maximum height of the vibration in the second half of the diagram
is 19 units. When this is multiplied by 0.618, the equivalent value on the
horizontal axis is 11.74 units.

"This was Mr. Gann’s own condlusion.
This places it on an equal footing with Figure 5-7.

137

--- PAGE 154 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapternumber
0 2 4 6 & 10 12 14 16 28 20 22 28 26 28 30 32 34 36

3
18.54 units ———

as 35

30

c
11.74 units, ls

Number of pages

30units ——————,

19 units

c

° °

0 2 2 6 8 102 a6 we 20M M26 28 3 32 -¥4 36
ee eozeunts

FIGURE 13-7: THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE IN MR. GANN’S DIAGRAM

Harmonising price with hidden energies

ical axis

The result is that the highest point of the diagram measured on the vei
(30 units) is almost exactly equal to the sum of the two Golden Ratio defined
widths on the horizontal axis (18.54 + 11.74 = 30.28 units). This outcome is
directly comparable with that shown in Figure 5-7. There is obviously a small
difference between the vertical and horizontal dimensions, amounting to 0.28
units; but the fact remains that the active phases of the vibration terminate on a
30 x 30 square. This means that the peak of wave B coincides with the end of a
45-degree line: drawn from the top left-hand corner of the 30 x 30 square to the
bottom right-hand corner. Once wave B has finished, the final wave C takes over.

In terms of the argument in Chapter 3, this means that the advance from 0 to
the top of wave 3 is the passive element in the process and that the advance from
the bottom of wave A to the top of wave B is the active element. Consequently,
the first advance is likely to incorporate just quantitative changes, while the
second advance is likely to embody quantitative changes and qualitative changes.
More generally, this means that the first rectangle represents the total response

In Figure 5-7 there is also a small difference between the vertical and horizontal distances.

"Given the variability, the actual line would be 45° 12’

138

--- PAGE 155 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

to the initial information shock of wave 1, and that the second rectangle reflects
the resulting structural system changes. Again, this confirms that wave B takes
place under the influence of deep structure changes.

If Figure 13-7 is translated into a financial market vibration, such that the vertical
axis represents price and the horizontal axis represents time, the expansionary
processes of the vibration will terminate when price squares with time. This may
be why Mr. Gann makes Robert Gordon say in Tiennel: “In making my predictions
I use geometry and mathematics... based on immutable laws”.» Moreover, this
conclusion holds true whatever units are measured on the horizontal axis.

Mr. Gann presented his pattern of vibration in the context of a square that is
35 units high and 35 units wide. But the use of a square to contain the vibration
is not essential to the phenomenon of squaring of price with time. The Golden
Ratio transforms the explicit energy being expressed on the vertical axis into an
implicit energy on the horizontal axis, and thereby resolves the issue of making
price compatible with time. The direct inference is that time itself has an
objective element that is normally hidden from us. For simplicity, | am going
to call this element objective Time.

The Jonas pattern

This obviously raises the question about the validity of such an approach in the
context of St. Matthew's “sign of the prophet Jonas” and Mr. Gurdjieff’s
enneagram. Figure 13-8 shows St. Matthew's pattern of vibration. The first point
to note is that, by construction, the whole pattern is contained within a square.
As with Mr. Gann's pattern, this has the effect of ensuring that the whole pattern
is completed in the context of a square.

The second point is that, because of this, the base of the diagram is not going
to be zero, as with Mr. Gann’s, but is going to be the actual start of the vibration
at the second word grouping. The total increase in gematrian values from this
point to the fifth word grouping is 2365. This number is almost exactly the
product of the numbers 38.2 and 61.8. Since nothing within St. Matthew's text
appears accidental, this could imply a direct reference to the Golden Ratio.» We
can then construct a Golden Rectangle from this, with a height of 2365 and a
width of 1461.6.

Next, we can construct a Golden Rectangle from the increase in gematrian values
from the sixth word grouping to the ninth. This yields a rectangle with a height
of 1554 and width of 960.4. If the two Golden Rectangles are placed
contiguously, with a common base line, the horizontal width is 2421 units

"Gann, Tinnel.
"38.2 x 61.8 = 2361,

139

--- PAGE 156 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

against a maximum height of 2365 units. This is not quite a square, so a falling
45 degree line does not correspond precisely to the inflexion point at the end of
wave B. But it nearly does. This suggests that there might be a zone, rather than
a precise point, where an inversion takes place.

Word grouping
1458 942 1346 1720 2124 2528 7932 3336 3740 A146 45.48
350 +--+ = + 4350
|
4000 ] 3 ‘4000
1461.6 units
wolf + jas
|
ss00 | | s300
|
23504 } 2950 |
3 3
§ 2600 | 2000 §
é
& 250] nso &
B sco | I soo ®
21900
] \
1550 4 | 1380
| |
A |
1200 + c 1200

so 4

soo +

+ soo

14 $8 942 1316 1720 2224 25.28 2932 3336 37-40 41.44 45-48
‘Word group!

FIGURE 13-8; THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE IN ST. MATTHEW'S DIAGRAM

The Gurdjieff pattern

A similar conclusion applies to Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern of vibration. This is
shown in Figure 13-9 where, again, the Golden Ratio transformation is applied
to the maximum height of the first half of the vibration, and to the extent of
the a-b-c rally in the second part. When the bottom edges of both Golden
Rectangles are aligned in the chart, the total horizontal width is 294.3 units and
the maximum vertical height is 283.6 units. Again, these dimensions do not
quite replicate those of a square. But the point is that a square can come into
existence close to the point of inflexion. The actual square is formed when the
rally from A to B has become large enough to ensure that the sum of the Golden
Ratio transformations on the horizontal axis equals the height of the initial three-
wave impulse from 0 to 3.

There are three important points that emerge from a consideration of Mr. Gurdjieff’s
diagram. First, he may have emphasised the depth of the wave b downswing in order

140

--- PAGE 157 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

to focus on the fact that wave B can only finish when three sub-waves have evolved.
In other words, the wave a advance cannot complete the process.

The second point follows from this. Once wave c of wave B has started, it is
necessary continuously to calculate the height of the evolving wave B. This is
because the larger Golden Rectangle has already been determined by the height
of the initial three-wave advance, but the second, smaller, Golden Rectangle will
grow as the wave B upswing progresses. When this second rectangle is large
enough for its lower right-hand corner to intersect a 45-degree line drawn
downwards from the top left-hand corner of the first rectangle, then the upswing
will be reaching a terminal juncture.

Chapter grouping
14 $4 9.42 19-6 17-20 21-24 25-28 29.22 33-36 37-40 41-44 65-48

a i f
2s 3

tT 175.3units —? |
200 | pe |

8 i}

ws | ©
sso |
- 1190units —

Change innumber of pages (%)
283 6 units

1926 units

100 +0 ——— i
t 294.3units

FIGURE 13-9: THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE IN MR. GURDJIEFF'S DIAGRAM

The third point, however, is probably the most significant — at least in theoretical
terms. In Mr. Gann’s diagram, calendar (or cycle) time and objective Time are
visually correlated because they are both contained by a square. In Mr.
Gurdjieff’s diagram, however, the only way that cycle time and objective Time
can be correlated is if the horizontal axis that tracks cycle time is adjusted. This
has been done in Figure 13-10.

Specifically, the horizontal axis has been widened — and the squareness of the
diagram gives way to a rectangle — so that the cycle pattern begins in the bottom
left-hand corner of the first square and the last major peak occurs above the

141

--- PAGE 158 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

bottom right-hand corner. It does not really matter, however, where the
contiguous Golden Rectangles are placed. Mr. Gurdjieff’s diagram thus overtly
separates the phenomenon of time as measured by the Earth's relation to the sun
(or moon) and the phenomenon of Time as represented by the Golden Ratio.
This separation draws attention directly to the importance of the latter.

Chaptergrouping
14 $8 9A2 1346 17-20 22-24 2528 2932 33-36 3740 4144 45-48

3
fo 1783unts ——

200 | 200
vs B 17s
a c
150 150
119. Ounits
ws 7 ns

283.6 uniits

Change innumber of pages (%)

192.6 uniits ee
x3
Change in number of pages (%)

as
so so
asf | c 1
100 ? } 100

2943.units

FIGURE 13-10; THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE WITH ADJUSTED CALENDAR TIME

SQUARING ACTIVITY WITH TIME

The obvious question, of course, is: does this idea of squaring explicit output
with implicit input work in practice? In Chapter 11, I showed the performance
of the ISM index of producer confidence between January 1991 and October
2001. The chart is reproduced in Figure 13-11. The initial three-wave recovery
took the index from a low of 39.2 to a high of 59.4. This is a difference of 20.2
units. The recovery from the low of wave A to the high of wave B took the index
from 45.5 to 58.1. This is a difference of 12.6 units. If the vertical heights are
multiplied by 0.618, the results are 12.48 and 7.79 respectively. Added together,
the result is 20.27, which is only marginally larger than the initial three-wave
advance. It is not always this easy; but, in this case anyway, Mr. Gann’s formula
seems to have worked.

142

--- PAGE 159 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

Percent of cycle time elapsed
036 9 12 16 19 22 25 28 11 44 37 40 43 47 $0 83 50 50 62 65.68.71 74 78 81M 87 90 03 08 99

Jan 981082001
(Monthly, seasonally adusted)
lata source net Sin Marageroer

202units

2027unis ———t

Jong) dan?” Jan} dant Jon 95 don 96 Jang?” Jang” Jang” Jano Junot

FIGURE 13-11; THE GOLDEN RATIO, THE 45-DEGREE LINE, AND THE ISM INDEX

Asin Figures 13-7 to 13-9, the Golden Rectangles have been placed on the chart
in a way that identifies the relationship between the first (i.e. largest) rectangle
and the initial three-wave upswing. The second, smaller, Golden Rectangle will
then expand as the wave B upswing evolves. When the resulting rectangle is
large enough for its lower right-hand corner to intersect a 45-degree line drawn
downwards from the top left-hand corner of the first rectangle, then the ISM
upswing will be reaching a terminal juncture.

To repeat, however, the placement of the two Golden Rectangles on the chart
in this way does not assume any specific relationship between calendar — or cycle
— time and objective Time. The two phenomena can only be made to match
visually if the cycle’s horizontal axis is shortened (in this case, lengthened in
other cases) to make sure that the start of the first upswing and end of the second
upswing coincide with the boundaries of the two rectangles. For completion,
this is done in Figure 13-12.

143

--- PAGE 160 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Percentof cycle time elapsed
© 8 16 23 31 39 47 S4 62 70 78 a 93

6s

ISM Purchasing Managers Index
(Monthly)

60

5s

so

Indextevel

4s

Fo 202 units

40

20.27 units —. f

Sa an nn I,
0 8 16 23 31 39 47 54 62 70 78 85 93
Percentof cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 13-12: THE GOLDEN RATIO AND THE 45-DEGREE LINE WITH ADJUSTED CALENDAR TIME

CONCLUSION

The intersection of a 45-degree line with opposite corners of two contiguous
Golden Rectangles may have been part of the phenomenon of vibration that
Mr. Gann was trying to communicate through the page structure of Timnel.
But it is quite obvious that this version of squaring price with time bears very
little relation to the formula that contemporary analysts attribute to Mr. Gann.

Fora start, the 45-degree line slopes downwards from left to right. Second, there
is no direct contact between the 45-degree line and the final turning point in
absolute prices. What we are dealing with, instead, is something much more
profound. The diagram appears to confirm the conclusion of Chapter 5 that
the phenomenon that we call time is not just a method of dividing a continuous
process into distinct and equal units; it is an energy in its own right that
participates in that process. In other words, Time has an objective dimension:
it is an energetic input that can be measured in relation to the associated output.

More subtly (and as argued in Chapter 3), this energetic input can be classified
according to the relative sizes of the two rectangles: the larger one is receptive

144

--- PAGE 161 of 225 ---

[OCR] A UNIVERSAL PATTERN OF VIBRATION
CHAPTER 13

(or passive) and the smaller one is generative (or active). This means that the
initial 1-2-3 upswing is essentially passive, while wave B (with its a-b-c
oscillation) is active. One implication is that the initial upswing establishes the
environment and sets the scene, while wave B is the one that creates the deep-
structure changes.

In terms of economic activity and financial markets, this adds substance to the
arguments in Chapter 8 concerning the nature of learning in the context of
economic activity and financial market speculation: the whole of the initial
upswing is the information shock; the wave A fall represents the absorption of
the information; and wave B is where the learning is actively applied.
Consequently, wave B is the location of persistent trends and permanent
structural change.

This chapter has explored the shape of a universal pattern of change that was
hidden in St. Matthew's Gospel, in Mr. Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’ Tales, and in Mr.
Gann’s Tunnel Thru The Air. If the findings are correct, they have revolutionary
implications for our understanding not just of collective human behaviour, but
also of the evolutionary processes embedded in the worlds of the infinitesimally
small and of the infinitely large. The processes of change may be much more
organised than we thought.

145

--- PAGE 162 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 163 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 14

INNER OCTAVE CYCLES

“[I]t is necessary to have a clear idea of another property of vibrations, namely
the so-called ‘inner vibrations.”

P. D. Ouspensky, quoting G. I. Gurdjieff

THE CREATIVE SHOCK

‘The patterns that were explored in the previous chapter (Figures 13-1, 13-2 and
13-3) show a significant momentum low halfway through the complete cycle.
This leaves the impression that the overall vibration consists of two sub-cycles —
namely, 0-3-A and A-B-C.

Certainly, the second half of each diagram reproduces the first half, although in
a compressed form: the a-b-c upwave mirrors the initial 1-2-3 upswing; and the
final wave C fall recapitulates the wave A collapse. In practical terms, it can
therefore often be appropriate to treat the vibration as a pair of cycles.
Nevertheless, Mr. Gurdjieff was quite clear that any complete process should
contain three distinct phases, or inner octaves (see Chapter 8). So, where are
these inner octaves in Mr. Gann’ pattern?

Figure 14-1 shows two data series: the upper one is Mr. Gann’s pattern of
vibration derived from the number of pages per chapter from Tunnel; the lower
one is Mr. Gann’s pattern converted to momentum, or changes in the number
of pages between one chapter and the next. It is immediately clear that the
vibrations afier waves 1 and 2 consist of three sub-cycles, all of equal length.

--- PAGE 164 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

30
Number of pages (Lh. scale)

sis change innumber of pages(r.h.scale)

Number of pages

10

(Change innumber of pages

2B tstoycie t 2ndeycle t 3rd cycle
P3087 9 mas as a7 a9 21 23 25 27 2931 33 35

Chapternumber

FIGURE 14-1; MR, GANN'S PATTERN CONVERTED TO MOMENTUM

These cycles are separated from one another and presented in Figure 14-2. All
three have a basic signature: they start and end on a low, and are interrupted by
a sharp contraction.' When they are averaged together (see Figure 14-2D), the
unmistakable pattern is that of an enneagram-type pulse. The implication is
that the oscillations are not random, and that the overall pattern references both
the Law of Three and the Law of Seven.

However, this still leaves the problem of interpreting the first two waves of Mr.
Gann’s pattern. A possible clue can be found in the analysis of inner octaves in
Chapter 6. A striking of the note Do triggers an ascending octave, with inner
octaves being initiated sequentially by the notes Re, Me and So (Table 6-4).
What is important here is that the initial Do occurs prior to, and independently
of, what subsequently evolves as the system; and that that emergent system starts
at Re. In other words, the initial Do is a creative shock.

If this logic is transferred on to Mr. Gann’s momentum pattern, the first upswing
can be viewed as the creative shock that corresponds to the initiating Do, and
the subsequent downswing represents the removal of the shock, But the shock
nevertheless creates three sub-cycles, which correspond to the three inner octaves.

‘Teydles are naturally punctuated by sharp contractions, they are i-represented by sine waves

148

--- PAGE 165 of 225 ---

[OCR] Position of page change within cycle

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

2s + . a rs

First cycle

10

Change in page numbers

20

15
|

10

INNER OCTAVE CYCLES

10203 @ S 6 7 & 8 w
Positionot page change within ye
FIGURE 14-24: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM
Position of page change within cyde
10203 8 8 6 7 & 9
Pr ieee Seen ee Co sf. Be
Second cycle
20

1s

10

Change in page numbers

a0 4

20

$$$

1 92 3 4 $ 6 7
Position of page change within cyde

FIGURE 14-2B: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM

25

20

18

10

Change in page numbers

10

15

20

as

2s

20

as

10

‘Change in page numbers

as

20

———.——++

°

10

CHAPTER 14

149

--- PAGE 166 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Position of page change within cycle

> 203 4 8 6 7 8
2s
Third cycle
20
1s
10

Change in page numbers

10

20

as .
1 92 3 4 S$ 6 2?

FIGURE 14-2C: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM

Position of page change within cycle

12 2 4 5 6 2
.

Average cycle
s|

| 3
‘
4
‘
¢
22
2
Fo
; 2
2
4
‘
A

*
0

> 2 3 4 8 6 7

Position of page change within cycle

FIGURE 14-2D: CYCLES OF MOMENTUM

150

s
Position of page change within cycle

10

10

10

a

20

10

40

20

as

10

Change in page numbers

Change in page numbers.

--- PAGE 167 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

This pattern is shown in Figure 14-1. The shock embodied in the first rising
wave (wave 1) in the upper part of the diagram will have an initial, once-off
impact. But it will then either merge into the structure of the affected system
or will simply fade away (wave 2). In the lower series in Figure 14-1, therefore,
the initiating shock emerges from nothing (zero in the chart), has an impact
and then fades away. But the system then vibrates.

This still leaves open the question of the source of the shock: can it be created
by the system itself or must it arise externally?) The question will be addressed
in the next chapter. For the moment, it is sufficient to acknowledge that,
whatever the source of the shock, the system has to respond to it. And it is this
response that is reflected in the subsequent oscillations.

THE OSCILLATIONS

Each of the three sub-cycles that follow the shock exhibits a different pattern.
The first cycle is balanced around a peak that is only slightly off-centre, and —
most importantly — is very similar to the momentum pattern that was deduced
from St. Matthew's text (see Figure 12-1). This is a strong indication of the
importance of this particular pattern. Its emergence invariably signals the
beginning of an adjustment. Its first three rising waves correspond to wave 3 of
Mr. Gann’s higher-level pattern, and its subsequent three falling waves
correspond to wave A of the higher-level pattern. The rising phase takes the
system as far as it can go without a change in the system and, consequently, the
falling phase is an energy gap associated with a system failure of some sort. In
this sense, the lower-level A-B-C pattern represents a genuine reversal of the
preceding 1-2-3 advance.

The second cycle has two momentum peaks, rather than three. In particular,
the initial recovery is dynamic and is followed by a sharp contraction. Then
there is a prolonged advance to the final peak. The overall effect is to produce a
simple left-biased pattern that reprises the more complex higher-level pattern.

Finally, the fluctuations in the third cycle match those in the first, except that
wave A appears dramatic and the final wave B upswing is damped. Wave A often
provides a shock that is so large that it effectively terminates the creative processes
within the whole triad of cycles. Waves B and C then become aftershocks.

As Figure 14-2D then shows, the average of these three inner cycles looks very
similar to a schematised version of the enneagram/price pulse discussed in

Tris an interesting fact that the idea of change is represented by the Greek letter delta — Le. 8. The shape of the
letter mirrors a shock that is followed by an advance that then fades. It is therefore also relevant that the capitalised
version of '8 is‘A’ with its implicit reference to the Law of Three.

\This is the difference between the endogenous and exogenous shocks of economic theory.

151

--- PAGE 168 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapter 9. Each cycle in a group of three will diverge from the average, and will
play a different role in relation to the higher-level cycle of which it is a part. But
the same basic dynamics are functioning all the time. These dynamics involve
an initial /earning pattern, an intra-cycle energy gap, a recovery and an end-cycle
contraction. This is the archetypal pattern behind all cycles.

Outer and inner octaves

Ivis possible to explain the differences between each of the lower-level cycles in
terms of the progress through an ascending octave, as described in Chapter 6.
This progress is retarded at the intervals Me-Fa and Ti-Do so that the system
fluctuates. As shown in Table 6-4 of Chapter 6, these particular intervals, or
energy gaps, occur not just in the outer octave, but also in each of the three
inner octaves. It is the interaction of the two levels that creates the differences
between each of Mr. Gann’s three sub-cycles. Table 14-1 reproduces Table 6-4,
with the addition of extra columns showing the difference in each note’s
vibration when compared with the previous, ‘lower, note. The points of

slowdown are highlighted.

|Whole phenomenon Triple octave
Tonic Sol-fa |Vibration _|Difference | Tonic Sol-fa [Vibration Difference
Do" 1256 32 Do* 256 16
Tie [240 [26.7
Ti 224 53.3
Lae 213.333, 21.3
So 192 21.3
La 170.666 42.7 Fae 170.666 0.7
Me 160. 6
Re 144 16
So N28 427 Do® 128 8
Tie 120 3.3
La? 106.666 10.7
Sot 96 0.7
Fa 185.333 21.3 Fa? 185.333 5.3.
Me? 80. g
Re* 72 8
Me 164 164 Do? 164 4
Ti? 160 6.7
La’ 53.333 5.3
So a8 53
Fat 142.666 2.7
Me 40 4
Re 36 a
Re 32 32 Do’ 132
Do 0

TABLE 14-1; THE HIGHER-LEVEL OCTAVE AND THE THREE INNER OCTAVES

152

--- PAGE 169 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

In the first of Mr. Gann’s momentum cycles, there are no points of retardation
in the outer octave, which leaves the energy gaps at Me'-Fa' and Ti!-Do! to
create the sharp falls in wave A and wave C respectively. In the second
momentum cycle, the outer octave has a reversal point at Fa (see Chapter 8)
and a gap at Me-Fa. These coincide with an inner octave gap at Me’-Fa’. This
is why there is such a sharp fall so early within the cycle, and why a clear wave
3 is unable to develop. There is then the inner octave gap at 7i?-Do’ which draws
the second cycle to a close.

In the third momentum cycle, there is a point of reversal at La in the outer
octave (see Chapter 8) and an energy gap at Me’-Fa’ in the inner octave. These
account for the sharpness of the cycle’s wave A fall. But the subsequent recovery
is limited by the outer octave’s energy gap at Ti-Do. Specifically, the interval
La’-T# in the inner octave — which should be strong — is instead vulnerable to
the Ti-Do'"' deceleration in the outer octave. This weakness is then compounded
by the 77-Do’ interval in the inner octave. And then the cycle ends.

The triad of sub-cycles in practice

‘These ideas may appear to besomewharabsenuse: So, before proceeding Rirdien
it needs to be demonstrated that the ideas are not just theoretical niceties; they
extend into practical realities. Figure 14-3 shows the-annualised owo-quarter
percentage change in UK industrial production since the secular cycle low of
1980. Overlaid on the chart is the profile of Mr. Gann’s pattern of vibration,
expressed in terms of momentum. Inevitably there are divergences; but it is the
similarities that are compelling. The 3-up/3-down pattern of the first cycle is
very clear, as is the early peak and progressive advance of the second cycle. What
really stands out, however, is the correlation between predictive theory and actual
experience in the third cycle. The correspondences prior to, during and after
the deep intra-cycle contraction are truly remarkable.

Mr Gann's pattern of vibration therefore presents an accurate picture of the
forces operating on the momentum of UK industrial production: it is able to
anticipate significant turning points, identify the direction of momentum and
distinguish between different stages of change.’ It means — among many other
things — that the recessions of 1990-91 and 2001-02, and the collapse of 2008-
09, were non-random and intrinsically forecastable. It also means that UK
industrial production vibrates to the rhythm of a 10-year cycle, and three beats

TThave been using this very specific three-phase behavioural pattern in economic activity since the late 1990s (see,
for example, Tony Plummer, Forecasting Financial Markets 4th Fd.) (Kogan Page, London, 2003)). The pattern was
fully incorporated into my forecasting processes at Rhombus Research Led (2001-07), and is now central to my
work at Helmsman Economics Ltd (2007 to date). What I did not know until 2011 was that the pattern was
inerinsic to William Gann’s methodologies. The point is that these truths could be deduced from the available daca
once it was accepted that non-random oscillating processes were at work.

183

--- PAGE 170 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

of the cycle chunk up to form an overarching 30-year cycle. This has dramatic
implications for the understanding of economic history and for the conduct of
future economic policy.

These findings do not just apply to economic activity. Figure 14-4 shows the
12-month percentage change, between 1980 and 2002, in an index of US 10-
year Treasury Note (or Bond) prices. As with the case of UK output, the
3-up/3-down pattern of the first cycle is very noticeable, as is the rightward bias
of the second cycle, and the relatively mild contraction at the end of the third
cycle. Most importantly, the intra-cycle retrenchments in 1983-84, 1990 and
1999 are very clear and coincide with the expected patterns.

One useful inference from the difference between the depth of the intra-cycle
contraction in the third cycle and the subsequent end-of-cycle weakness is that
the former marks the end of the dynamic processes of the cycle and the latter
partly reflects the process of recovery. Again, the overriding point is that the
evolution of the price vibration is non-random and basically forecastable. In the
case of T-Notes, there appears to be a 7.3-year cycle, three beats of which form
an overarching 22-year cycle. This also has important implications for the
conduct of economic policy.

Percentot cycle time elapsed
26 9 12 45 10 21 24 28 E34 47 40 42 46 50 53 SE S062 6S GD 72-75 78 AL EL AT 91 94 97 100
UK Industrial Production

(Quarteriy)
Data source: ONS

2atrchange (pa)

cree in eroducvon
—Wrehetypaipater of vbr ation 228

tsa) 1s3a3ts0603 s9e9c3 | sszaa i99Sq2 199803 Zoo1a z008aa 200703701003 201303,
Currenteycle

FIGURE 14-3: MR. GANN’S PATTERN OF ‘INNER’ VIBRATIONS; UK OUTPUT

154

--- PAGE 171 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

Mat Mac? Mar MarS6 Math Mur Mar] Maré M96 Murs Muro Maro? Maco

f i
((100-yield; monthly, daily averages) :
Data source FRB

temonth change (8)

omnes nore inden ,

hetypaoater of viraton

t a a Se oaeee

Macho Maraz |” Maré” Mit | Mares Mar90. (Marg? Murad M96 | Marsa Muro Muro? | Manos

FIGURE 14-4: MR, GANN’S PATTERN OF ‘INNER’ VIBRATIONS; US 10-YEAR T-NOTES

The role of the sub-cycles

The combination of theory and reality shown in Figures 14-3 and 14-4 helps to
confirm the idea that each of the sub-cycles plays a different role in the context
of the higher-level process to which they contribute. The first eycle — which, to
repeat, mirrors St. Matthew's pattern — is likely concerned with separation from
the preceding higher-level cycle. Herice che 1980-91 cycle was very much involved
with the shift away from a highly inflationary, heavily unionised, economy. It was
therefore divisive and conflict-orientated, and ended in a deep recession.

The second cycle appears focused on the implementation of change. The 1991-
2001 cycle oversaw the information revolution and the globalisation of markets.
Tt was a low-inflation cycle that generated a sense of collective optimism. The
third cycle then encompasses the bedding down or incorporation of new processes
and structures. It is a cycle that has to deal with the fading of the processes of
the preceding phase of innovation. It reflects structural limits on any further
change. And it eventually involves an outright response to excesses. The cycle
that started in 2001 has accordingly been characterised by stuttering economic
activity, volatile crowd psychology and social unrest.

The three phases of separation, change and incorporation reflect the irreversible
processes of evolution.’ In terms of Figure 14-1, the information shock that triggers

The terms eparation, change and incorporation are different to the terms transition, innovation and disruption that
I used in Forecasting Financial Markets. The meanings ate the same, but the focus is different.

--- PAGE 172 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

these three phases must occur prior to the first cycle in the series. If this idea is
translated onto Figure 14-3, it implies that the relevant shock to the UK economy
had to occur in the last stages of the higher-level cycle that ended in 1980. If we
continue to assume the operation of a non-random process, then it is possible to
hypothesise that the relevant information shock at the end of the preceding cycle
was generated either by economic developments (such as surging inflation and/or
economic recession) or by external social and political events (such as war).

Ic isa fact that the 1970-80 period, which preceded the period shown in Figure
14-3, was characterised by accelerating inflation and weak economic growth,
and by the global impact of the Vietnam War. Such dislocations are always likely
to emerge at the end of large cycles. They inevitably embody the sort of shocks
that subsequently initiate a new evolutionary process.

The idea of a triadic hierarchy of cycles — with three cycles at one level combining
to form a cycle at a higher level — can also be deduced from the structure of Mr.
Gurdjieff’s book, Beelzebubs Tales. As already mentioned, the first part of that
book — the first sub-book within the book — consists of 28 chapters. The number
28 has its own heritage in relation to cycles. It is the product of 4 and 7, and is
the sum of the numbers between I and 7. In the context of cycles and natural
vibrations, the number 7 is always likely to be a reference to the Law of Seven. As
a corollary, therefore, so is the number 28. This suggests that some of the same
techniques that were applied to the whole of Beelzebub’ Tales can be applied to
the first 28 chapters. The details are shown in Appendix 6.

CONCLUSION

It hardly needs to be emphasised that all these findings are extraordinary. They
imply that the swings in collective optimism and pessimism that are associated
with oscillations in economic activity are going to proceed along broadly-
defined, but nevertheless very specific, pathways. They also imply that, once a
socio-economic vibration has been set in motion, policy-makers can only damp
down, or add to, the oscillations; they cannot reverse them. This is consistent
with the growing body of academic evidence that suggests that government
activity is not an independent variable in relation to the economic system, It
seems that the political conflicts and economic upheavals that are periodically
experienced in our democracies are actually part of a broad process over which
we have little or no control.

The presence of a common signature pattern in the different presentations made
by Mr. Gann, Mr. Gurdjieff and St. Matthew is truly remarkable given the vast
differences in the numbers of pages and words that are involved — 1238 pages for
Beeleebub’ Tales, 418 pages for Tunnel and only 68 words in St. Matthew's Gospel.

--- PAGE 173 of 225 ---

[OCR] INNER OCTAVE CYCLES
CHAPTER 14

However, the achievement is more easily understood when it is recognised that
the different authors were working with the same natural construct. That is, they
were working with what Mr. Gurdjieff called the Law of Three and the Law of
Seven (see Chapters 3 and 7), and with what Mr. Gann called the daw of vibration,
derived from St. Matthews text (see Chapters 10 and 12).

The critical differences between Mr. Gann’s pattern, and those of Mr. Gurdjieff
and St. Matthew, are that, on the one hand, it was concealed in an appallingly
trivial book and, on the other hand, it is very complex. It is this contrast that
invites attention. It suggests that the book was constructed in order primarily to
convey the pattern. Furthermore, since the pattern itself was given no attendant
explanation, then it is highly likely that the pattern itself must hold additional
information. This is exactly what this chapter has shown. Mr. Gann’s pattern is
a carrier wave: it holds three inner octave cycles that are generated by a preceding
shock (Figure 14-1). Moreover, the average of these three cycles translates back
into a basic pattern that is very similar to St. Matthew's (Figure 14-2).

There may be much more to Mr. Gann’s configuration than has currently been
identified. However, we can now draw three important conclusions. First, all
natural cyclical processes can be represented by a left-biased enneagram-type
pattern, which represents the average outcome. Second, a higher-level cycle consists
of a sequence of three lower-level cycles, each of which has a slightly different
profile. Third, cycles at all levels are likely to contain an intra-cyele contraction, as
well as being separated from one another by inter-cycle contractions.

The next chaper will look more closely at how some of these ideas might work
in practice.

187

--- PAGE 174 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 175 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 15

THE LAW OF VIBRATION
IN PRACTICE

“Gpele theory, or harmonic analysis, is the only thing that we can rely upon to
ascertain the future.”

W.D. Gann

A SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS

The preceding chapters have explored a specific pattern that was hidden in the
structure of three very different texts: St. Matthew's Gospel; George I. Gurdjieff’s
All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of the Life of Man, or
Beelzebub’s Tales to His Grandson; and William D. Gann’s The Tunnel Thru The
Air. The reasons why the pattern was included in St. Matthew's text cannot now
be known. However, both Mr. Gurdjieff and Mr. Gann saw the pattern as being,
in part, a symbol of perpetual motion within the living universe. But they also
saw it as being a direct reflection of a real phenomenon. Mr. Gurdjieff called it
the Law of Seven; Mr. Gann called it the law of vibration.

The two most important given aspects of this law are that the vibrations exist
throughout the whole universe, without exception, and that the vibrations are
discontinuous. Pyotr Ouspensky, quoting Mr. Gurdjieff, argued that “vibrations
proceed in all kinds, aspects, and densities of matter... from the finest to the
coarsest; they issue from various sources and proceed in various directions, crossing
one another, colliding, strengthening, weakening, arresting one another...

"Ouspensky, In Search,

--- PAGE 176 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

At the same time, these vibrations accelerate and decelerate. To quote Mr.
Ouspensky again:

“The force of the impulse acts without changing its nature and vibrations
develop in a regular way only for a certain time which is determined by
the nature of the impulse, the medium, the conditions, and so forth. But
ata certain moment, a kind of change takes place in it and the vibrations,
so to speak, cease to obey it and for a short time they slow down and to
a certain extent change their nature or direction.”

‘This phenomenon was discussed in detail in Chapters 7, 8 and 9, and the
different presentations from the three different authors were explored in Chapters
10, 11 and 12. It was found that the authors’ patterns of vibration were basically
identical to one another, and that the pattern could be found in collective human
behaviour in economic activity and in financial markets. It is likely that the
pattern can be found in many other arenas. In Chapter 8 it was argued that the
pattern appeared to incorporate the distinctive archetypal pattern of the process
of learning, In Chapter 14 it was further argued that the initial shock has its own
pattern of vibration, that it is followed by an energy gap, and that the subsequent
movement constitutes the application of learning. It is as if the information shock
has to gain traction within a system before it can have an effect.

Mr. Gann appears to have taken this last argument a step further. The
information shock can be seen either as a part of a whole, higher-level, pattern,
or it can be seen as initiating three sub-cycles. In the first case, the shock is wave
1 of a 1-2-3 rising pattern. The shock is then absorbed in wave 2 and
implemented in wave 3. In the second case, the shock occurs outside of the
phenomenon being tracked, and therefore prior to three subsequent cycles. The
first cycle is a volatile response to a prior shock; the second cycle incorporates a
more sustained system response to the shock; and the third cycle reflects the
limits to further change and exhibits fading energy.

US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

It is not the purpose of this book to show in detail how the pattern of vibration
can be used. This is for each individual to research. Nevertheless, some of the
power of the pattern — and its potential to help with our understanding of the
world — can be indicated by showing its presence in collective human behaviour
in the context of economic activity. For the purposes of this exercise, I shall
focus on US industrial production.

Thid.

160

--- PAGE 177 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

The point of doing so is that the US — and therefore the West — is facing severe
economic problems. These problems are not just temporary deviations from an
ever-improving trend because the 2008 financial panic was an energy gap in the
economic systems of most Western democracies. This shock has started a long
process of deep structural change that will extend beyond the sphere of economic
activity. The forces now at work will eventually alter the nature of social cohesion

and collective attitudes to the role of government in a democracy.

Data is somewhat limited, but annual production data from 1790 is available
from the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and monthly data
from 1919 is available from the Federal Reserve Board (FRB).' The former has
the advantage of being a consistent series, but it has the disadvantage of not
being constructed contemporaneously with the evolving US economy. It is likely
to contain measurement errors. Nevertheless, it is likely that it shows the general
direction of quantitative trends, even though it may not always accurately reflect
the fluctuations around those trends. The FRB’s data, on the other hand, are
produced with a high degree of rigour.

Figure 15-1 shows 1-year rates of change in US industrial production from 1790
to 2011.

a

US industrial Production
cata sour ROEM ond FRO

Lyeorm change

FIGURE 15-1: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

‘Volume data for US industrial production from 1790 to 1915 has been constructed by Joseph H. Davis (see, ‘An
Annual Index of US Production, 1790-1915', Quarterly Journal of Economics (November 2004)). Volume data for
manufacturing production from 1863 to 1930 is available on the NBER's website. For the purposes of this exercise, the
‘ovo data series have been merged and then concatenated with end-year data calculated by the Federal Reserve Board.

161

--- PAGE 178 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

One of the characteristics of the US industrial production chart is the increase
in the volatility of momentum between 1893 and 1945 (particularly on the
downside). This is prima facie evidence of a system responding to one or more
shocks. In fact, the first half of the 20th century incorporated some of the most
destructive shocks in the 20th century. Moreover, the events followed each other
sequentially, building shock upon shock. The financial crisis involving the
Knickerbocker Trust collapse (1907-08) was followed progressively by the First
World War (1914-18), a massive speculative boom and equity crash (1921-29),
a prolonged depression (1930-39), and then the Second World War (1939-45).
Not surprisingly, the whole period generated profound shifts in social attitudes,
political opinions and economic policy.

Non-random fluctuations

The question, however, is: are the fluctuations random? A cursory examination
would suggest that they are; but, once the idea of an archetypal pattern of
vibration is applied to the data, a profound form of order emerges. The analytical
process is somewhat lengthy. In the first place, it is iterative, involving a recurring
comparison of Mr. Gann’s three-phase iver octave pattern with the actual data.
In addition, there are two complications.

The first is that each three-phase vibration is preceded by a build-up of the
energy that will fuel the separation cycle. This transformational energy is
reflected in the emergence of problems that are basically insoluble under the
current paradigm and in a collective recognition that change is inevitable. This
period has to be isolated and removed from the pattern-matching process. The
second complication is that the evolution of the actual pattern through time
will inevitably involve some degree of variation in the timings of each of the
inner octave sub-cycles. This means that the sub-cycles have to be standardised
graphically against each other. This standardisation is achieved by
mathematically stretching the horizontal length of the shorter cycles so that they
match the length of the longest cycle in any set.

Figures 15-2 to 15-5 accordingly show the patterns of change in US industrial
output over four separate periods: 1801 to 1832; 1834 to 1870; 1875 to 1908;
and 1911 to 1940. The time elapse of the four periods is, respectively, 31 years, 36
years, 33 years and 29 years; the average length of the four cycles is thus 32 years.

Each of the charts is overlaid with Mr. Gann’s three inner octave sub-cycles. This
splits the momentum patterns into three sections, reflecting the three-stage
evolutionary process of separation, change and incorporation. Not surprisingly,
there are differences between the actual patterns and those that would be
expected from Mr. Gann’s cycles. A great deal of allowance has to be made for
potential errors in the original annual statistics. And even if the data is more or

--- PAGE 179 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

less correct, end-year data is simply not sensitive enough to pick up the precise
timings of Mr. Gann’s cycles. Nevertheless, the charts do show a good overall
correlation between the expected direction of change (according to Mr. Gann’s
pattern) and actual changes.

What also emerges is that the gap between the ending of one cycle and the start
of the next — that is, the period when transformational energy is being
accumulated — is variable both in length and (therefore) in impact. The 1801-
32 cycle was followed by a two-year interlude from 1832 to 1834; the 1834-1870
cycle was followed by a five-year interruption from 1870 to 1875; the 1875-1908
cycle was followed by a three-year gap from 1908 to 1911; and the 1911-1940
cycle was followed by a five-year interruption between 1940 and 1945. Each
such interruption — which invariably consists of some degree of recovery from
an end-cycle low followed by a fall — can be called an inter-cycle hiatus.

Percentol ere tine elapsed

os os owe Nn eH SR we RR RT
| |

as 3 (Endyear) bas
ta sources NBER 8 FPS. |

to ©

th sewnen
ee

FIGURE 15-2: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1801 TO 1832

The pattern of this interruption is much clearer in the Federal Reserves monthly data, See Appendix 7.

163

--- PAGE 180 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Percentof cyte time elapsed
os Dn eH Hw HR Pe
Poy eres Reino everett rat : *
JS Industrial Production |
as (Endyear) | s

Data sources NBER & FRE

3
4 |

syeae% change
Lyeaen change

. A : aocpecnacle laa
ofl ____sereaten t oem ocerperseon t i

0 5 bf sn we NM we we a A Rw

Percentot exe time elapsed

FIGURE 15-3; MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1834 TO 1870

US Industrial Production | |
(End-year |
wesc haere | .

year change

os bs en 6 Oe RF
Percent of cyte time elapsed

FIGURE 15-4: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1875 TO 1908

164

--- PAGE 181 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE

CHAPTER 15
Percentol eye time elapsed
so : oo ov 0
‘US Industrial Production
(End-year)

20 »

S toscctedpater
or a
of we os mn we on we a we ee wn mF
Percentof ye time elapsed

FIGURE 15-5: MOMENTUM OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1911 TO 1940

The inter-cycle hiatus

The gap between cycles seems to be very important to the law of vibration. On
the one hand, the gap undoubtedly embodies unfinished business from the just-
ended incorporation cycle. This latter almost invariably contains an intra-cycle
recession (or slowdown), which will have impacted as a shock. The inter-cycle
hiatus then allows the system to deal to some extent with remaining problems
from this shock. But the important point is that this part of the process is likely
to occur within the context of the existing environment. The environment itself
doesn’t necessarily change. Such a transformation only really starts to occur
during the first (separation) cycle of the next era.

On the other hand, the inter-cycle hiatus does contain an essential forward-
looking focus. In terms of the Table 14-1 of Chapter 14, it is part of the ‘Do’
that initiates the inner octaves of the subsequent overarching cycle: The
important point is that the interruptions are not new shocks as such; they are,
instead, periods that are charged with creative energy. In the context of economic
activity, they embrace all the forces that eventually generate a paradigm shift.
These include — but are not confined to — political disquiet, labour unrest and
policy ineffectiveness.

The central problem for analysis — at least in the context of Mr. Gann’s pattern
~ is that the inter-cycle hiatus does contain a genuine degree of randomness: it

"Such inner octaves will start theoretically at Re, Me, and ‘So’ of the higher-level octave.

--- PAGE 182 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

is not always easy to isolate in the historical data and its locus is not easy to
forecast. It invariably consists of an advance and contraction, but the amplitude
of each of the swings seems unpredictable. In practice, it may often be
appropriate just to assign the experience of the inter-cycle hiatus to the cycle
that is just ending.

Long-term order

If the inter-cycle hiatuses are nevertheless excluded from the behavioural
patterns, it is possible to calculate an average of the patterns in Figures 15-2 to
15-5 and compare that average to the configuration produced from Mr. Gann’s
law of vibration. Figure 15-6 shows the results after each of the underlying inner
octave cycles have been co-ordinated in length by mathematically stretching the
shorter cycles to match the length of the longest cycle.

The correspondence between the patterns is very compelling. The average
separation cycle incorporates the archetypal 1-2-3/A-B-C pattern, with wave B
containing its own a-b-c pattern. The average change cycle exhibits two clear
peaks, one early in the cycle and one late. And the average incorporation cycle
contains the initial three-wave advance, a significant intra-cycle contraction, and
an end-phase recovery and setback. Moreover, all three sub-cycles contain the
expected inter-cycle contraction.

Percentof cx time elapsed
o 5 @ Ss nw NR He He OH OK Rw Rw RF

year change

year change

Cm tverge tour eesit808 2940)

as = ~~ tepectespatern 6
t a
os EN ee

FIGURE 15-6: AVERAGE PATTERN OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 1801 TO 1940

166

--- PAGE 183 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

There are three important conclusions that can be drawn from this analysis. The
first is that there is a strong concurrence between the expected and actual shape
of the first inner octave cycle that initiates each of the three big cycles. This
agreement confirms the importance of the shape of the first (i.e. separation)
cycle in a triad, Once an archetypal three-up/three-down (1-2-3/A-B-C) pattern
has emerged, it means that a whole new process is well underway, and that the
shape of the next two cycle beats are (to some extent) forecastable.

The second ~ and related — conclusion is that the time elapse of the initial
separation cycle is going to provide a very good indication of the time elapse of
the whole overarching cycle. This is because the second (change) and third
(incorporation) cycles tend towards an equal length, both with the separation
cycle and with one another. In practice, there is often some variability between
the second and third cycles, but a lengthening in one seems to result in a
contraction in the other.

In principle, the combined length of the change and incorporation cycles should
be twice the length of the initial separation cycle. Hence, for example, the first
sub-cycle in Figure 15-5 starts in 1911 and lasts for 10 years. This implies that
the whole vibration will last for another two cycle beats of 10 years each, so that
the overarching cycle should end in 1941. In the event it finished in 1940, which
is encouragingly close.

The archetypal pattern

The third conclusion is based on the fact that there is a close theoretical match
between the shape of the separation cycle within a triad and the average of all
three inner octave cycles. This similarity was originally shown in Figure 14-2 of
Chapter 14, and is shown more directly in Figure 15-7. The average cycle has a
smaller amplitude than the separation cycle, because the oscillations tend to
become damped as they evolve. But the parallels are unmistakeable.

The inference is that the shape either of the separation cycle or of the expected
average can be used to estimate the evolution of all three cycles in a triad. As a
corollary, if the process of averaging a series of fluctuations produces a pattern
that is similar to either of those shown in Figure 15-7, then it is likely that the
fluctuations are tracking a genuine cycle. In effect, this is what happened in
Figures 9-4 and 9-5 of Chapter 9. The process of averaging a series of 3.5-year
cycle beats in the Dow Jones Industrial Average produced a basic three-up/three-
down pattern.

167

--- PAGE 184 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Position of page change within oyde
or 3 4 8 6 7 8 8 w
2 . . 10

Inner octave 3

1s

Chargein page numbers
Change in page numbers

yen td ‘
yerage cycle A

D230 4 3 6 7 @ ) wn e
Pouivonotpae change wince

FIGURE 15-7: THE ARCHETYPAL PATTERN

Figure 15-8 therefore shows the average of all of the nine inner octave cycles that
were used in Figure 15-6. The pattern is a very close match for the average
expected pattern. This means that, once the periodicity of the vibrations have
been established by the separation cycle, the average pattern can be used to track
the two subsequent cycles in the triad. It is, of course, important to remember
that the patterns constructed by St. Matthew, Mr. Gurdjieff and Mr. Gann all
conform to this same archetype.

These comments confirm that the law of vibration is not just confined to the
observable overall pattern and its three inner sub-cycles. It also involves three
specific features: the distinctive shape of the first cycle, which mirrors the shape
of the whole cycle; the importance of the periodicity of the first cycle in
determining the length of the whole overarching cycle; and the relatively
unstructured inter-cycle hiatus at the end of a set of three inner octave cycles.
There may well be other aspects that are, as yet, undiscovered.

THE POST-WAR PERIOD

We now have enough information to move on to an analysis of the post-war
period. On annual data, the final war-induced momentum low occurred in
1945; but, on monthly data, it occurred in February 1946. Figure 15-9 shows
the 12-month momentum of US output from November 1940, and therefore

--- PAGE 185 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

also shows the inter-cycle hiatus that ran from November 1940 to February
1946. In effect, the hiatus coincides with the Second World War. Overlaid on
the momentum is Mr. Gann’s expected three-phase pattern of vibration.

Percentot cycle time elapsed
© 8 15 2 31 38 46 Se 62 69 77 85 92 100

4+ eee $1
JS Industrial Production

2 (End-year) fz
‘Dota sources: NBER & FRE |
10 3

years change

L-years change

 Mverage of 12 cycles (1801-1940)

|
o 8 om wk ae 68 77 BS 92 100
Percent of cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 15-8: THE AVERAGE EXPECTED PATTERN AND ACTUAL BEHAVIOUR; 1801-1940

Nov4dNov43 Now A —Mov49 Hows? NovSS —Mov'SBNev:61Nov'6d Now? Now 70 Mov.73 Now'76—Now79
perenataare a i °

| US Industrial Production

Seperation _

FIGURE 15-9: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, 1946-78

169

--- PAGE 186 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

The results are quite remarkable. The first (separation) cycle exhibits the pattern that
is associated with a new phase of development: a very clear 1-2-3 advance is followed
by a pronounced A-B-C contraction; and, within this latter, wave B subdivides into
three (a-b-c) waves of its own. The wave C downswing ends in 1956, which means
that the length of the initiating separation cycle is about 10.5 years.

This timing can be confirmed by two calculations. The first is that the end-date
coincides with the expected date, once the actual highs and lows of the
separation cycle are matched with the expected pattern. Second, when
subsequent oscillations in the change and incorporation cycles are matched to
the expected pattern, the overall cycle ends in 1978 and is therefore 32 years
long. In other words the length of the whole cycle is three times the length of
the initial separation cycle. Nevertheless, this interpretation does not include
the deep recession of 1957-58, which would therefore have been difficult to
anticipate in real time.

The second (change) cycle then shows a sharp recovery and a pronounced fall,
followed by a more prolonged advance. It ends with a late, but relatively sharp,
drop. The whole cycle therefore starts in 1956 and ends in 1967. It is just over
10.5 years long.

Finally, the third cycle shows an initial three-phase recovery, followed by a very
sharp drop. There is then a muted recovery, followed by a short contraction that
ended the whole cycle. As theory predicts, however, there was then an inter-
cycle hiatus that initially involved a short recovery, but was subsequently
dominated by another prolonged contraction.

This pattern is relevant to understanding the events of the 1970s. The period
was highly inflationary as a result of the method that was used to finance the
Vietnam War. Too much money was borrowed from the banks rather than from
savers, and monetary growth exploded. There was, eventually, a financial crisis:
government bond yields soared during 1974 and, not surprisingly, the private
sector dropped into a deep recession. But this event did not end the cycle. It
was an intra-cycle shock that had to be absorbed by markets, by businesses and
(most importantly) by policy makers.

Resistance to change

The truth is that politicians will only put aside — or more often, adjust —
favoured policies when they are actually faced with a crisis. In this case, the
devastation that was being wreaked by the combination of government spending
and inflation was placed in temporary abeyance when the Vietnam War drew
toa close. However, proper measures to deal with the problem were too slow in
materialising. As always with government spending, there was resistance from

170

--- PAGE 187 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

the electorate. President Gerald Ford made some half-hearted attempts and
President Jimmy Carter was unable to gain a second term in the White House
because of his more aggressive proposals. Consequently, inflation advanced again
in the late 1970s,* monetary policy was reluctantly tightened and the private
sector slumped back into recession.

The period from late 1978 to mid-1980 involved resistance to change rather
than actual change. But, underneath, there was a massive build-up of pressure
in the desire to deal with inflation. The electorate eventually recognised the
seriousness of the problem after being confronted with rising oil prices,
widespread and disruptive strikes, soaring interest rates and high unemployment.
This strengthening of unreleased tension is the central characteristic of an inter-
cycle hiatus. The appointment (by President Carter) of Paul Volcker to the post
of Chairman of the Federal Reserve was probably the most important reflection
of the changed attitudes to inflation. Mr. Volcker quickly moved to tighten
monetary policy at the expense of higher unemployment.

THE 1980-2012 CYCLE

The idea of a mid-cycle contraction in the incorporation cycle and of a relatively
unstructured interlude — or inter-cycle hiatus — between that cycle and the next
separation cycle helps to explain the five-year gap between the 1974-75 crisis
and the start of the next big cycle in 1980. Figure 15-10 shows the 12-month
momentum in US output between 1978 and 2012. The hiatus that occurred
between 1978 and 1980 is shown as the shaded area. The momentum pattern
is then overlaid with a schematic of Mr. Gann's ideal three-phase pattern.

Again, the parallels between actual and expected momentum are compelling.
First, the chart confirms the presence, sequentially, of a separation cycle in 1980-
91, a change cycle in 1991-2001, and an incorporation cycle that started in
2001 and is due to end in 2012 or soon thereafter. The patterning clearly picks
out the three-wave recovery after the 1980 low, the strong advance after the
mid-1990s and the much weaker performance in the first half of the 2000s. It
also clearly identifies the deep end-cycle recession of 1990-91 and the sudden
end-cycle recession of 2001-02.

Second, the separation cycle lasts for just over 10.5 years, ending in March 1991.
This suggests that the change and incorporation cycles, when combined, should
last for just over 21 years, finishing in mid to late-2012. The whole pattern from
1980 should therefore last for about 32 years. Importantly, this is the same

* One of the factors was a surge in oll prices in 1979, caused initially by the overthrow of the Shah of Iran and
subsequently by the interruption of oil supplies during the Iran-Iraq War. It is arguable, however, that oil prices
would nor have had the same impact if inflationary expectations had not already been hyper-activated.

--- PAGE 188 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

duration as the 1946-1978 cycle, and the same as the average of the four cycles
that evolved between 1801 and 1940. The chart therefore confirms the idea
that, in general, the US economy has been driven by an oscillation that lasts for
more than three decades and that sub-divides into three lower-level cycles each
of which lasts 10 to 11 years.

Feb78 FebSiFebat—Feb87 —Feb90“Feb93_— Feb SG Fab99 Feb? FebUS Feb OS eb
3 (Monthly)
2 Data source FRE 2

nee
ieee sepaaton BE Change a oe
eer fern” Tevet Wena?” fenso feos) Fens rene reba fenas. tenon Fein,

FIGURE 15-10: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, 1980-2012

Third, the pattern picks out intra-cycle weakness in 1984-85, 1995-96 and
(most noticeably) 2007-09. These particular episodes were just over 11 years
apart, which resonates with the periodicity of the lower-level cycles and with
the overarching higher-level cycle.

The 2007-09 shock and its aftermath

Presented in this way, Mr. Gann’s pattern reveals the intrinsic purpose of the
2007-09 economic contraction. It was a profound shock that has started a
process of adjustment. This adjustment will consist of two parts. First, it will
consist of the recovery and setback that terminates the natural evolution both
of the incorporation cycle that began in 2001 and of the overarching cycle that
began in 1980. Second, the adjustment will then consist of an inter-cycle hiatus
that will build-up the energy for a subsequent separation cycle.

At the time of writing (2012), the first (recovery and setback) stage of the process
is all but over. This can be confirmed from Figure 15-11, which shows the
evolution of the 2001-12 incorporation cycle, compared with the expected

172

--- PAGE 189 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION IN PRACTICE
CHAPTER 15

change. The US economy should have completed its initial response to the
2007-09 collapse by the end of 2012 and thereby set the stage for the second
(hiatus) stage of adjustment. In quantitative terms, this second stage should —
on the basis of previous cycles — last for three to four years and consist of an
initial short recovery followed by a bout of pronounced weakness.

‘Curreteyce(2001-date)
Novi NowO? —NavOS—Ravd— Rows Novi0G—NovaT—Now08—Now0 Row]. Now Mow?

os s is

nf rested ab cyte 2008 ater nse, wer ws a

6 6
ee ee ee ee
Percentot cycle time elapsed

FIGURE 15-11: THE 2001-2012 INCORPORATION CYCLE IN US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

This implies that there will be some form of an economic recovery between late-
2012 and (possibly) mid-2014, followed by a period of weakness. At the
moment, we can expect this weakness to be relatively pronounced, but we
cannot know precisely how long it will last. On the basis of historical precedent,
an end-date target of somewhere between mid-2015 and mid-2016 seems
appropriate. The central point is that the period will almost certainly be
characterised by: a progressive build-up of economic tensions; deepening
uncertainty about financial market trends; and rising anger towards ineffective
politicians. Public rhetoric will increasingly focus on whatever it is that needs
to be changed. When sufficient political momentum for deep change has
developed, then — and only then ~ a whole new pattern of vibration will begin.

CONCLUSION

In the 1920s, William Gann constructed a book in order specifically to convey
what he considered to be secret or sacred information. The Tunnel Thru The Air

173

--- PAGE 190 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

visually and integrally resonated with the Golden Ratio and the Law of Three,
and carried within its architecture a very specific pattern of vibration derived
from the Law of Seven. Ata basic level, the pattern was virtually identical to the
configurations associated with George Gurdjieff and St. Matthew. As such it
can therefore be regarded both as a symbol of transformation and as a pattern
that is likely to appear in indices of collective human activity when a change is
actively underway.

However, Mr. Gann’s pattern was much more complex than either Mr.
Gurdjieff’s or St. Matthew's. When deconstructed, it reveals a three-phase
oscillation, with each phase displaying a marked inter-cycle contraction.
Significantly, the three-phase pattern is circumscribed by an undefined shock at
its start and by an unforecastable inter-cycle hiatus at its close.

In order to assess the practicability of Mr. Gann’s ideas, his three-phase pattern
was applied to a data series on US industrial production. To an untrained eye,
thar data series looked random. Moreover, it almost certainly contained
measurement errors. Nevertheless, the results were remarkable. Even though
individual periods showed significant divergences from Mr. Gann's ideal pattern,
the average of all periods clearly converged on that pattern. This is consistent
with the idea that collective behaviour contains a strong deterministic element.
Hence, it is possible to confirm our location within the big economic and
financial market trends — and anticipate the future trajectory of those trends —
in a way that does not yet seem available to conventional economic analysis.

In truth, however, the analysis has only scratched the surface of a subject that
has huge implications for our understanding both of the nature of cosmic forces
and of the behaviour of humanity. For this reason alone, the comments in this
chapter must not be regarded as the final word on the accuracy, or otherwise,
either of the law of vibration itself or of its application to economic indices.
Other researchers may well come up with other timings and other
interpretations. Furthermore, there are additional layers of meaning and
influence that have not been addressed. Nevertheless, what emerges is evidence
ofan ordered process over which humankind en masse has very little independent
influence. This process is the law of vibration.

The law of vibration, and the energy pattern behind it, shows us something very
specific about the way that energy oscillates within living systems. Insofar as
human beings merge together into collective wholes in search of a sense of safety
and feeling of well-being, they are subject to these oscillations. Perhaps we would
do better to recognise this and, in so doing, facilitate a new social attitude to
politics and economic policy. The alternative is to allow unconscious mass
behaviour — both in the private and public sectors of the economy ~ to create
destabilising excesses.

--- PAGE 191 of 225 ---

[OCR] CHAPTER 16

THE FINAL WORD

“There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in
your philosophy.”

William Shakespeare (Hamlet: Act 1, Scene V)

SECRET LAWS

There can be little doubt that a very specific pattern was hidden in the structure
of three texts: in St. Matthew's Gospel, in George Gurdjieff’s Beelzebub’ Tales
to His Grandson and in William Gann's The Tinnel Thru The Air. There can also
be little doubt that the pattern somehow relates to the processes of change in
living systems, including systems involving collective human behaviour. But
what is less certain is why the authors considered this particular pattern to be
so important — and, in a sense, so sacred — that it had to be hidden.

On the face of it, the pattern is very simple. It is divided into two distinct sections,
both of which involve a three-wave advance followed by a fall. Importantly, the
advance-and-contraction in the first half of the pattern is significantly more
dynamic and potentially destructive than the advance-and-contraction in the
second half. Consequently, the whole pattern has a pronounced leftward bias. At
the very least, the pattern is strongly suggestive of the way that living systems
adjust dynamically to the input of new information and energy.

More generally, however, and given the context within which Mr. Gann
presented his version of the pattern, the design supposedly represents a law of
vibration that pervades the known universe. Its dynamics reflect what Mr.
Gurdjieff called the Law of Seven and its existence would necessarily affirm the

175

--- PAGE 192 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

accompanying presence of a creative Law of Three. According to Mr. Gurdjieff,
these two great cosmic laws are vital both to the evolution of the universe and
to life on this planet.

According to modern scientific enquiry, however, such /aws cannot exist
independently of the narrow context within which they arise. This means either
that science is blind to the presence of certain primordial laws that predate life
on Earth, or that the teachings of St. Matthew and Mr. Gurdjieff are simply
incorrect. Yet even an unsophisticated — and cursory — analysis of some of the
potential applications for the law of vibration reveals at least a hint of its
ubiquity. Hence, there is a strong case for further research on the subject.

Only research by open-minded analysts, working within their own fields of
investigation, can provide the necessary evidence for the reality of a law of
vibration. If it is shown to exist, it will have implications far beyond anything
that has been discussed in this book. It could be relevant to new ideas in
disciplines stretching from quantum physics to astrophysics, from social sciences
to earth sciences, and from biological evolution to genetic mutation.

ALONG HISTORY

But what, then, is its history? What was its original source? Who had access to
it and why? And for what reason has it been so deeply hidden? The answers —
insofar as they can be found — seem to arise more in the form of an ever-
deepening mystery than as a precise solution. The alleged pattern of vibration
presents itself as — to use Mr. Gurdjieff’s terminology — a left-biased
“enneagram”-type pulse, But, as far as is known, Mr, Gurdjieff himself did not
actually reference such a bias in his enneagram teachings. In hiding it, therefore,
in Beelzebub’ Tales, he was implicitly signalling its importance and preserving it
for some future purpose.

He was also taking the same path that St Matthew had done almost 2000 years
earlier. Indeed, the fact that the left-biased enneagram pulse was so deeply buried
in a tiny piece of text in one of the Christian Gospels, and then left there without
any further comment, compounds its mysterious nature and adds credibility to
its potential importance within the flow of history. It seems highly unlikely that
anyone would have been able to recognise its implications in the first century
C.E. because there would have been no way of applying it directly to the then-
known world. If anything, it is likely that it would have been regarded as being
an important, but unintelligible, symbolic representation of God. But are we
any better placed now? Even if it is found to be widely applicable to processes
within living organisms and systems, would science be able to accept its
implications about the nature of the universe?

176

--- PAGE 193 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE FINAL WORD
CHAPTER 16

WILLIAM GANN’S LEGACY

Mr. Gann undoubtedly had more than just an inkling about what the pattern
meant. He considered it to have been sufficiently important to construct a
version that carried a remarkable volume of extra information. His pattern
contains a reference to a three-phase structure to evolution, it suggests that there
is an objective element to the energy of time, and it intimates that the oscillation
of living systems can be tracked through time using geometry. His construction
undoubtedly took a lot of thought, effort and skill.

As it happens, it has long been rumoured that Mr. Gann knew something that
was unusual — which is why his extant work remains so popular even though it
is largely unfathomable. But the precise details of his concept of a law of
vibration have never been made available in the sort of detail that is being
presented here. Mr. Gann hid the information in the complex structure of a
largely irrelevant book. Why did he do so? One answer, of course, is that it added
to his sense of importance. But this seems misplaced, given his attitude to
spirituality that was evidenced in the most obscure of his books, The Magic
Word. In fact, as shown in Appendix 8, Mr. Gann applied the same techniques
to The Magic Word as he did to Tunnel.

It seems likely that — for some reason — Mr. Gann felt that the pattern behind
the law of vibration couldn't be revealed during his lifetime, but nevertheless
had to be made available for future use. This resonates with Mr. Gurdjieff’s
treatment of the pattern.

Perhaps the most important fact, however, is the one that is the simplest: the
intellectual environment in the first half of the 20th century still wasn’t
sufficiently receptive to the idea of unknown /aws embedded in the cosmos. In
the 300 years since the dawning of the Age of Enlightenment, scientific research
has progressively shifted the focus of attention away from inner truths and
eternal verities to external events and quantifiable realities.

More recently, it is true, the evidence from quantum physics and from
consciousness research has started to blur the distinctions between inner and
outer, and between the infinitesimally small and the infinitely large.
Nevertheless, there is still a vacuum in scientific research caused by the exclusion
of purpose, meaning and overarching self-organisation. Consequently, science
cannot yet explicitly recognise the existence — let alone the validity — of a Law
of Seven or of a Law of Three. So it literally cannot see the specific pattern that
these laws are supposed to generate.

"Gann, The Magic Word.

--- PAGE 194 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

CONCLUSION

Perhaps, therefore, when St. Matthew's version of the pattern was originally
conceived, it was destined to be found only when sufficient supportive
information was generally available, and when the research environment was
receptive to new ideas and new approaches. In other words, St. Matthew's
pattern could be the harbinger of — or even the catalyst for — one or more
paradigm shifts within the scientific community. Indeed, it may be that Mr.
Gann and Mr. Gurdjieff are links in a chain of understanding that connects the
modern era all the way back — at least — to St. Matthew.

And this raises two intriguing possibilities. The first is that the pattern is in some
way an archetypal symbol for the presence of information within the deep-structure
of the universe. The pattern does not manifest in a quantifiable manner until it is
somehow triggered; but the fact that the same basic pattern is always observable
under conditions of change suggests that it may be a genuine outward sign of the
inner coherence within what David Bohm has called the “implicate order”’ Perhaps
it was even embedded within the dynamics of the so-called “Big Bang”.

The second possibility relates to the message that St. Matthew might have been
trying to convey. The preliminary layer of interpretation of his Greek text reveals
the symbol for the astrological Age of Pisces that was gestating 2000 years ago.
A subsequent layer of analysis then reveals the left-biased enneagram-type
pattern, but only when account is taken of the 12-fold structure of the Zodiac.
It is therefore possible that St. Matthew's pattern is a valid symbol for the new
astrological Age into which we are stumbling ~— the Age of Aquarius. The pattern
is, after all, wave-focused in its dynamics. But, more strikingly, it is also wave-
like in its appearance. A comparison of the pattern with the traditional
representation of the symbol of Aquarius not only reveals the parallels between
the two, but it also shows a particular difference: St. Matthew's version has a
conspicuous tsunami-like shape.

If this conjecture is correct, there would be two implications: first, St. Matthews
text unquestionably transcends Time; and, second, the new Age will involve
profound changes to — among other things — humankind’s social, political and
economic structures.

It is my opinion that the pattern that St. Matthew hid in his Gospel, that George
Gurdjieff concealed in Beelzebub’ Tales to His Grandson and that William Gann
buried in The Tunnel Thru The Air, is profoundly meaningful. It is not just a
symbolic representation of an implausible law relating to oscillations within the
Earth's biosphere, but is instead a container of fundamental truths about the
deep-structure of the cosmos. We can ignore it. Or we can accept it for what it
may well be: the final statement of a revelation that was initiated in St. Matthew's
Gospel almost 2000 years ago.

"See David Bohm, Coherence and the Tmplicate Order (Routledge 8c Kegan Paul, London, 1980)

178

--- PAGE 195 of 225 ---

[OCR] Appendices

APPENDIX 1

NUMERICAL EQUIVALENTS OF NEW
TESTAMENT GREEK LETTERS

Lowercase Ja Fy Y 5 é ¢ 6
Uppercase | A 8 r A E Z H ic)
Number 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 9
Lowercase |; K A u v & ° 7
Uppercase |/ K A M N Sy oO 7
Number 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Lowercase |p ac |r v ¢ ix y @
Uppercase |P =z T Y QO x sf n
Number 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800

In addition, the value of the combined letters OT could be either 6 or 500.

179

--- PAGE 196 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 197 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 2

ST. MATTHEW’S GOSPEL, CHAPTER 12, VERSES
38-40. GREEK TEXT

Tor
300 70300
os

Then
ree
200 eo 50
1180
Ae y
53
os
ano
1 © 70
181

trom
VERSE 38
° 5
0 4
te be
yer
205 0
6
gereranon
onw
383
mimodous sign
ou
70 400
470
one
20 8 40
a3
VERSE 39

a an
5 1 0
saa
yp a
3 101
1340
70 50 wos
oop
200 70 80
220
yu
5 1
05
are
51 0
209
ero
5 10 7 %
560 89
4 7 9 8
cor
state gven
5 10 7 50

200

20

gs

eps e
20 10010 9
ware
21 05
51 6
25

rv,

onuwe
ms 0 5
383

iracdous 8
np @
2 0 0 8
vnpe
© 8 10%

25
00k
s mt 0

love
0 om 50 +

noav autre
8 20 1 © 1 400 300 800
1501
ov ker oo
800 50 a1 ~ soo
2 1672
wo phanseos
aorade a.
1 20 01 ws os
208
wows
toy 16 ere
wm 09 ws 5 1 50
cy
persona
eros frome v
wm 5 Dm Ss %
0
sone
was wore
m1 0 8 7 10 600
x oa
nares rae
om s 0 @ 1 0
»
aura” eu
1 420 300 8 s
709 1s
" tony
row "pe
300 70 00 = 100 70
770 1520
(re prophet

ase agRe

ge

es

es
e+

wacdous 897

°

10 20

ov

181

--- PAGE 198 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER

THE LAW OF VIBRATION

oon
00 200 60
yes

1 08
rope
300 100 5
ars

VERSE 40

‘
5

10

e
100

Bo

ge

3°

Ba

Y
3

108

ap
1 10

ines

te

wtbe

a
®
364
oye

we
ws

sges

g>

ge

gO

BO

pies

@aze

reyes

30 600 80

1061
Jona

300 70 «a0 200

«

ras
m1 0
ons

40 10 70
00

a koa
0 ea)
root
m1 0
ey

5 60
8
eu
5 0
300 70
0
ote
soa
wo
5 10

vurr
0 400 20 300
on

not
rae y
308 2003
8 a
ote on

©
20

Source: Nestle-Aland Greek-English New Testament, Deutsche Bibelgeselischaft, Stuttgart, 1990.

182

--- PAGE 199 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 3
THE VESICA PISCIS AND TIME

It can be shown that the element of time is implicitly present in the vesica piscis.
St. Matthew's version relates the circle of Jonas to the square of the Son of man,
and measures 1061 units in width and 1592 units in height. First, the numeric
value of the Greek word nepag, meaning “days” is 354; and the width of the
diagram (i.e. 1061 or 1062 units) is three times the number 354. That is:

354 x 3 = 1062

The width of the diagram is therefore symbolically equivalent to 3 “days”. See
Figure A3-1 (page 184).

Second, the total height of the diagram is measured as the radius of the Jonas’s
circle plus the height of the Son's square. That is:

1061 + 531 = 1592

The number 1592 is virtually equivalent to the numeric value of “three nights”
(ise. 1586). The height of the diagram therefore corresponds to “three nights”.
See Figure A3-1 again.

Hence, the two phrases “Jonas in the belly of the whale” and “the Son of man
in the heart of the earth” can be taken to refer to a diagram involving a circle
and a square (or, two circles and two squares encapsulating a vesica piscis) whose
total boundary is described by the term “three days and three nights”.
Furthermore, if the width is divided by the height, the result is a number that
has already been discussed. It is the number of the active creative power in the
universe, namely 666. That is:

1061 / 1592 = 0.666

In other words, any construction of the vesica piscis references not just the active
energy of creation but also the passage of time.

--- PAGE 200 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

KS

/~~

FIGURE A3-1: 3 “DAYS” AND “THREE NIGHTS”

L9OOL
wS}yBlu eeuy}, = Z6SL = L9OL + LES

184

--- PAGE 201 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 4

THE STRUCTURE OF WILLIAM GANN’S
TUNNEL THRU THE AIR

Chapter number _ [Chapter pages Number of pages _| Proportion of total (%)
Start [End

7 7 5 5 3
2 6 7 2 6
3 18 34 7 8
4 35 29 5 7
5 50 al 2 4
6 62 74 13 Vv
di 75 84 10 9
8 85 89 5 [zz
9 90 104 5 25
10 105 14 10 28
7 15 125 7 3
2 126 155 30 Eg
B 156 170 15 36
14 im 186 6 i
5S 187 194 8 42
16 195 7m 7 a4
7 22 27 é a7
18 28 2a a 50
19 2 236 15 33
20 27 a 56
2 250 256 7 58
2 257 261 5 al
B 262 268 7 64
24 269 25 7 7
25 276 289 4 69
26 290 299 10 [72
7 300 32 B 75
28 33 324 12 78
29 325 337 3 ai
30 338 356 9 3

185

--- PAGE 202 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapternumber | Chapter pages Number of pages | Proportion of total (%)
Start End

31 357 374 18 86

32 375 381 7 89

33 382 391 10 92

34 392 401 10 94

35 402 406 5 97

36 407 418 12 100

Source: Financial Guardian Publishing, New York, 1927, Reprinted Lambert-Gann Publishing,
Washington, USA, 1990.

--- PAGE 203 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 5

THE STRUCTURE OF GEORGE GURDJIEFP’
BEELZEBUB’S TALES

Chapter | Start Finish Pages Changes (%) |Reverse chapter | Changes (%)
1 3 50 48 48 400.00
2 51 55 > -89.58 47 8.33
Ed 56 65 10 100.00 46 -25.00
4 66 69 4 -60.00 45 38.46
5 70 72 3 -25.00 44 -59.38
6 73 75 > 0.00 43 -53,28
7 76 78 3 0.00 42 191.49
8 79 80 2 -33.33 4) 18.97
3 81 86 6 200.00 40 -15.94
10 87 3 7 16.67 39 38.00
N 94 97 4 42.86 38 61.29
12 98 102 15 25.00 37 933.33
3 103 105 3 -40.00 36 0.00
14 106 108 3 0.00 35 -95.45
15 109 120 12 300.00 34 450.00
16 121 133 3 8.33 35 42.86
7 134 148 1S 15.38 32 -38.24
18 149 176 28 86.67 3 “54.67
19 W7 206 30 714 30 108.33
20 207 226 20 33.33 29 56.52
2 227 251 2s 25.00 28 -417
22 252 267 16 -36.00 27 84.62
23 268 314 47 193.75 26 116.67
24 35 346 32 31.91 25 81.25
25 347 352 6 81.25 24 “31.91
26 353 365 B 116.67

27 366 389 24 84.62

28 390 412 23 417

29 413 448 36 56.52

30 449 $23 75 108.33

3 524 557 34 -54.67

32 558 578 2) 38.24

187

--- PAGE 204 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Chapter [Start [Finish oes Changes (%) [Reverse chapter [Changes (%)
33 579 590 42.86
34 591 656 a ~__ [450.00
5 ica 659 “95.45
36 660 662 : 0.00
7 668 698 31 933.33
38 694 743 50 6129
39 744 Bi gy 38.00
40 813 870 58 715.94
a Ea 37 a7 71897
a2 38 105437 19149
@ 1055 _‘|ime 64 “53.28
44 m9 1144 26 "59.38
45 145 1160 16 38.46
46 761 72 12 25.00
a7 173 7183 v 833
28 7184 1238 55 400.00

Source: Fifth Impression, Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1967

188

--- PAGE 205 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 6

THE STRUCTURE OF THE FIRST 28 CHAPTERS
IN BEELZEBUB’S TALES

The number of pages in each of the first 28 chapters can be found in Appendix
5. Figure AG-1 plots the chapter number against both the number of pages
(lower section) and the percentage change in the number of pages (upper
section). At first glance the pattern appears somewhat random, but the
underlying order comes into focus both when the lower part of the diagram is
compared with Figure 10-1 of Chapter 10, and when the upper part of the
diagram is split into three equal sections.

The lower part of the diagram shows that, from the eighth chapter onwards,
there is a rising five-wave pattern, with the fourth wave consisting of three
sections, denoted a-b-c. The pattern is essentially similar to one derived from
the whole of Beelzebub’ Tales and shown in Figure 10-1. They both show a rising
pattern, including a three-phase fourth wave. If we continue to assume that the
page and chapter structure of the book was carefully designed, then the
similarities are not accidental.

More importantly, however, is the fact that the upper part of the diagram can
be seen as showing a sequence of three enneagram-type cycles: the first pattern
is a left-biased cycle, whose wave b makes a new high; the second pattern is a
centred cycle with an impulsive wave 3; and the third cycle is slightly left-biased,
but has a muted finish.

If we put these two features together, it is possible that Mr. Gurdjieff was
pointing to extra dimensions to the enneagram and the associated law of
vibration. An impulsive movement in any system is not only modulated by
cycles, but the latter also appear in batches of three.’ From one perspective, this
is a natural deduction from the presence of three inner octaves in a complete
outer octave. From another perspective, it implies that each sub-cycle will be
influenced by developments in the higher-level cycle (or trend) of which it is a
part; and that activity arising within each lower level cycle will, in turn,
contribute to the evolution of the higher-level cycle.

"We thus have a situation where an apparent five-phase impulse movement is actually the result of three contiguous
enneagram-type fluctuations placed around a rising trend. This may help to reconcile Ralph Elliott's five-phase
Wave Principle with the idea of triadic cycles.

--- PAGE 206 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Just as with Mr. Gann’s pattern, Mr. Gurdjieff’s triadic pattern can be found in
data series of collective human behaviour. Figure AG-2 shows the locus of
producer confidence in Germany. Such confidence is here represented by a
business climate index that is calculated by the German /fo Jnstitute from
monthly survey data. The broad oscillations are tracked by the percentage
deviation from a 10-year moving average of the data. Again, the parallels are
compelling. Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern predicts three cycle beats with a common
periodicity, and this is exactly what emerges in Germany after 1982. Three beats
of a 10-year cycle — i.e. 1982-93, 1993-2003 and 2003-12(?) — constitute an
overarching 30-year cycle. What is particularly noticeable in Germany's case is
the first cycle’s surge in optimism just prior to, and then immediately after, the
fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989; the second cycle’s three waveness after the recession
of 1991-92; and, eventually, the third cycle’s surge in optimism in 2003-07,
followed by the panic of 2008.

350
300
Ew
a 200
5 150
5 100
$%
go
50 a
100 . a
t_Fistbest___$ Seconabeat_} Thirdbeat_f
so
changin number of pages per chapter (Lh.scale} 5
«
——Number of pages pr chapter (rh scale)
pages per chat 3 i
b amd
v ~ fo i
1 tL 4 » *
—— 2 5
©2234 5 6 7 8 8 10913219 14.15.16 17 18 19 2021 22 23 24 25 2627 28

‘Chapter number
FIGURE A6-1: THREE PHASES IN A COMPLETED CYCLE

There would, of course, be some difficulties in using Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern as
a blueprint for all cycles. For example, Mr. Gurdjieff’s pattern seems to have
reversed the first and second cycles of Mr. Gann’s pattern. It may be that Life
itself indicates which of the two patterns has to be used. In addition, some of
the short-term fluctuations have different amplitudes to what might have been
expected. Even so, the timings of the important moves are very precise.

190

--- PAGE 207 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDICES

i esa heir octet

Source 120 +61 Garett scheme patern x

. "s
t ‘}
i H
f° “4
i. 4
3 3

istoycle

FIGURE A6-2: MR. GURDJIEFF'S PATTERN OF VIBRATION; GERMAN BUSINESS CLIMATE

191

--- PAGE 208 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 209 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 7
THE 1940-45/46 INTER-CYCLE HIATUS

Figure A7-1 shows the momentum of US industrial production between 1921 and
1946. Data is monthly and momentum is shown as a 12-month rate of change. As
already mentioned, monthly data is only available from 1919, but it is nevertheless
placed on a chart thar starts from 1911. In this way, it is possible to show
momentum in the same context as that shown in Figure 15-5 of Chapter 15.

As presented, output momentum follows the general pattern indicated by Mr.
Gann’s inner octave blueprint. However, momentum is much more dynamic
than the blueprint in 1921-22, and is much weaker for longer in 1930-32. It is
important to note that the process ends in 1940. It is followed by a brief rise
into 1941 and then by a very sharp fall into early 1946. On this analysis, the
evolution of the inner octave pattern does appear to end on time, but the
environment created by the exigencies of war meant that another big fall was
still needed during the inter-cycle interruption.

» IS Industrial Production 7”
hI

aft Sicenine t Change a a

FIGURE A7-1: MOMENTUM OF US INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION; 12-MONTH CHANGES, 1911-46

193

--- PAGE 210 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 211 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDIX 8
ANOTE ON WILLIAM GANN’S THE MAGIC WORD

In 1950, Mr Gann published a paperback entitled The Magic Word. The parallels
with Tunnel are unmistakeable: The Magic Word includes the instruction that it
is to be read “at least three times over a period of three weeks”; and is embellished
with biblical quotations, aphorisms and blank pages. The similarities suggest
that we can apply the same analytic techniques to The Magic Word as were
applied to Tunnel. Even so, given the subject matter of the book, any conclusions
can only be regarded as conjecture.

Ata straightforward level, the book is an instruction manual for meditation. It
advocates a mantra using the seven-letter/three-syllable word “Jehovah”; it
recommends visualisation techniques; and it encourages attention to breathing.
The full-page diagrams, which are constructed from triangles, circles and words,
can be used for contemplation. Such techniques didn’t really enter popular
consciousness until the 1980s. Mr. Gann’s ideas were therefore significantly
ahead of their time.

Ata more subtle level — and in its original format — the book contains much
more information than might initially be apparent. The first clue comes in the
shape and size of the book. It is 8-11/16 inches wide and 11-1/8 inches high,
which makes it strangely large for a metaphysical text. Even the ratio between
the width and the height (0.78:1) seems not to have any specific meaning.
However, when account is taken of the size of the back as well as the front, and
an allowance is made for the width of the spine, the whole cover forms a Golden
Rectangle, 0.62:1. It looks ordinary, but open it up and something else appears!

When the book is opened, what immediately becomes apparent is that it
includes a number of pages that contain only diagrams, a significant number of
blank pages and a very large number of biblical quotations. The second clue to
additional information, therefore, is that — like Tunnel — The Magic Word has
been padded out. The book is actually divided into: two parts. The first part
contains 16 unnumbered pages: eight pages from the start to the last blank page

Revisions that have been made to The Magic Word Tor recent publication have tnvolved not just a change to the
structure of the book but also considerable alterations to the text. This completely eradicates the hidden message(s)
that Mr. Gann was trying to convey and — in my opinion — dishonours his work.

195

--- PAGE 212 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

before the introduction; and eight pages covering the introduction, the index
and the blank pages after the index. In fact, there are eight blank pages in the
first 16 pages. In effect, the first section therefore contains a threefold reference
to the completed octave, with two being explicit and one — the blank pages —
being implicit.

One interpretation is that the explicit double octave implies the completion of
a whole Gann pattern in its dyadic form, and that the implicit octave references
the influence of other, unseen, forces. This, in turn, suggests that something —

i.e. psychological work or stage of life — has to be complete before the processes
alluded to in The Magic Word can be activated.

‘These processes are referenced in the second — or main — part of the book, which
consists of 12 chapters. Moreover — and unlike in the first part of the book —
each page is numbered. This means that the number of pages in each chapter
can be plotted against the chapter number. When this is done, a very specific
pattern emerges (see Figure A8-1). The first half of the pattern shows a rise and
fall that obviously resonates with the first half of the pattern found in Tunnel.
It is actually much simpler than the version in Tiel, but it contains a clear
three-wave advance followed by a dramatic collapse. Like the original, the third
wave reaches a peak one-third of the way into the pattern and the low occurs
about half way into the pattern.

1, aq

By ui

I, at
“A ' i ” v ce § * x 7 =

FIGURE A8-1: PAGES PER CHAPTER IN THE MAGIC WORD

These similarities not only support the methodologies used in Tunnel, but also
suggest that presence of the pattern in The Magic Word was intentional and

196

--- PAGE 213 of 225 ---

[OCR] APPENDICES

meaningful. This, in turn, suggests that the three-wave advance and single-wave
contraction may reference a learning process that involves an initial move to the
limits of an unchanged system, followed by a collapse as the system has to adjust
itself to irreversibly changed circumstances.

What is significantly different about the overall pattern in The Magic Word,
however, is that the second half of the configuration shows a persistent rise,
rather than a three-wave rise followed by a fall. In other words, the pattern
doesn't have an explicit termination point. This may well be an allusion to the
results of meditation — at least as experienced by Mr. Gann. The fact, therefore,
that the pattern leaves Chapter 12 (with its implicit reference to the heavens)
ona rising trend hints either at the success of his personal spiritual endeavours
or at least at his expectations regarding those endeavours. This interpretation is
consistent with the fact that the last three pages of the book are left blank. This
could be a reference to The Void of ancient wisdom or to the quantum vacuum
of modern science.

Hence, the pattern in The Magic Word could be interpreted as a process of
development that:

1. Starts when the person is ready (the double octave in the first part of the

book);

2. Involves a period of intense effort, followed by a collapse of internal
psychological structures (the first half of the diagram); and

3. Proceeds steadily into some sense of the numinous (the second half of the
diagram).

These ideas may seem very idealistic. But there are three points that suggest they
may have been part of the intended message: in 1950, the ideas were completely
new; they were being referenced at a time when general religious opinion would
have been overtly hostile; and they are absolutely consistent with Mr. Gann’s
belief in the influence of a Power greater than himself.

The Magic Word almost certainly reflects Mr. Gann's experience of some form
of hidden Christianity. And the diagram buried within it is consistent with —
and therefore validates the idea of — the behavioural pattern concealed in The
Tunnel Thru The Air.

197

--- PAGE 214 of 225 ---

[EMPTY PAGE]

--- PAGE 215 of 225 ---

[OCR] Bibliography

The Holy Bible (Authorised (King James), English Revised Version, 1881)
The Ticker and Investment Digest (December 1909)

Akerlof, George A. and Shiller, Robert J., Animal Spirits: How Human Psychology
Drives the Economy, and Why it Matters for Global Capitalism (Princeton
University Press, 2009)

Aland, Kurt, et al., Greek-English New Testament (Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft,
Stuttgart, 1981)

Bandura, Albert, Social Learning Theory (General Learning Press, New York, 1977)

Bateson, Gregory, Mind and Nature — An Essential Unity (Wildwood House,
London, 1979)

Bennett, John G., Enneagram Studies (Coombe Springs Press, Masham, 1974)
Bennett, John G., Gurdjieff: Making a New World (Harper & Row, New York, 1976)
Bentoy, Itzhak, Stalking the Wild Pendulum (Wildwood House, London, 1978)

Bohm, David, Coherence and the Implicate Order (Routledge & Kegan Paul,
London, 1980)

Bond, Bligh and Lea, Simcox. Gematria (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1917)

le Bon, Gustave, Psychologie des Foules. Reprinted as The Crowd (Macmillan,
New York, 1922)

Campbell, Robert, Fisherman's Guide: A Systems Approach to Creativity and
Organization (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1985)

Coveney Peter and Highfield, Roger, The Arrow of Time (WH. Allen, London, 1990)
Cowan, Bradley F, Pentagonal Time Cycle Theory (Private publication, USA, 2009)

Davis, Joseph H., ‘An Annual Index of US Production, 1790-1915", Quarterly
Journal of Economies (November 2004)

Dyer, John, et al, ‘Consensus decision making in human crowds’, Animal
Behaviour 75:2 (February 2008)

199

--- PAGE 216 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Easton, Alexander (Ed.) and Emery, Nathan (Ed.), The Cognitive Neuroscience
of Social Behaviour (Psychology Press, London, 2005)

Elliott, Ralph Nelson, The Wave Principle (Elliott, New York, 1938)

Fama, Eugene, ‘Random Walks in Stock Prices’, Financial Analysts Journal
(September/October, 1965)

Fideler, David, Jesus Christ, Sun of God: Ancient Cosmology and Early Christian
Symbolism (Quest, Wheaton (II.), 1993)

Gann, William D., The Tunnel Thru The Air (Financial Guardian Publishing,
New York, 1927)

Gann, William D., Supply and Demand Letter: 1929 Annual Stock Forecast (W.
D. Gann Scientific Service Inc, New York, 23 November 1928)

Gann, William D., 45 Years in Wall Street (Library of Gann Publishing Co.,
Pomeroy (Wa.), 1949)

Gann, William D., The Magic Word (Library of Gann Publishing Co, Pomeroy
(Wa.), 1950)

Gimbel, Theo, Form, Sound, Colour and Healing (C.W. Daniel Company Ltd,
Saffron Walden (Essex), 1987)

Gurdjieff, George I., All and Everything: An Objectively Impartial Criticism of
the Life of Man, or Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson (Routledge & Kegan Paul,
London, 1950)

Hayes, Michael, The Infinite Harmony: Musical Structures in Science and Theology
(Weidenfeld and Nicolson, London, 1994)

Hebb, Donald, The Organisation of Behaviour (John Wiley, New York, 1949)

Jordan, D.W. and Smith, P, Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations (Oxford
University Press, Oxford, UK, 1977)

Keynes, John M., ‘The General Theory of Employment’, Quarterly Journal of
Economics (February 1937)

Keller, David, (Ed.), Breakthroughs in Technical Analysis (Bloomberg Press, New
York, 2007)

Koestler, Arthur, Janus: A Summing Up (Hutchinson, London, 1978)

Kuhn, Thomas, The Theory of Scientific Revolutions (University of Chicago Press,
Chicago (II), 1962)

Laszlo, Ervin, Science and the Re-enchantment of the Cosmos: The Rise of the
Integral Vision of Reality (Inner Traditions, Rochester (Vt.), USA, 2006)

200

--- PAGE 217 of 225 ---

[OCR] BIBLIOGRAPHY

Lawlor, Robert, Sacred Geometry: Philosophy and Practice (Thames and Hudson,
London, 1982)

Lebergott, Stanley, ‘Wages and Working Conditions’, The Concise Encyclopedia
of Economics (Library of Economics and Liberty, Indianapolis (In.), 1993)

Levarie, Sigmund and Levy, Ernst, Tone: A Study in Musical Acoustics (Kent State
University Press (Kent), 1980)

Livio, Mario, The Golden Ratio (Review, London, 2002)
Lucas, Robert, Models of Business Cycles (Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1987)
Mandelbrot, Benoit, The Fractal Geometry of Nature (Freeman, New York, 1977)

Malkiel, Burton G., A Random Walk Down Wall Street (W.W.Norton & Co.,
New York, 1973)

Michell, John City of Revelation: On the Proportions and Symbolic Numbers of
the Cosmic Temple (Garnstone Press Ltd., London, 1972)

Michell, John, The New View Over Atlantis (Thames and Hudson, London, 1983)
Michell, John, The Dimensions of Paradise (Thames and Hudson, London, 1988)
Mills, Henry, Teaching and Training (Macmillan, London, 1967)

Moran, Jim, The Wonders of Magic Squares (Vintage Books, New York, 1982)
Mouravieff, Boris, Gnosis (Praxis Institute Press, Newbury (Ma.), 1992)
Murchie, Guy, Music of the Spheres (Dover Publications, New York, 1961)

Muth, John F, ‘Rational Expectations and the Theory of Price Movements’,
Econometrica (July 1961)

Naranjo, Claudio, Ennea- Type Structures (Gateways/IDHHB inc, Nevada City
(Ca.), 1990)

Neumann, Erich, Depth Pychology and a New Ethic (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1990)

Nott, Charles S., Journey Through This World (Routledge & Kegan Paul,
London, 1969)

Ouspensky, Pyotr D., Jn Search of the Miraculous: Fragments of an Unknown
Teaching (Harcourt, Brace & World, New York, 1949)

Plummer, Tony, Forecasting Financial Markets (4th Ed.) (Kogan Page, London, 2003)
Plummer, Tony, Forecasting Financial Markets (6th Ed.) (Kogan Page, London, 2010)

Prechter, Robert R., (Ed.), The Major Works of R.N. Elliott (New Classics Library,
New York, 1980)

201

--- PAGE 218 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

De Santillana, Giorgio and von Dechend, Hertha, Hamlets Mill: An Essay on
Myth and the Frame of Time (Gambit, Boston, 1969)

Shakespeare, William, Hamlet
Schonfield, Hugh, The Essene Odyssey (Element, Shaftesbury (Dorset), 1984)

Schonfield, Hugh, The Original New Testament: A Radical Reinterpretation and
New Translation (Waterstone & Co, London, 1985)

Skidelsky, Robert, ‘The Relevance of Keynes’, Cambridge Journal of Economics
(January 2011)

Smith, Russell A., Gurdjieff Cosmic Secrets (The Dog, Sanger (Tx.), 1993)

Tarnas, Richard, Cosmos and Psyche: Intimations of a New World View (Plume,
New York, 2007)

Ulansey, David, The Origins of the Mithraic Mysteries (Oxford University Press,
London, 1989)

Walker, Kenneth, A Study of Gurdjieff ’s Teaching (Jonathan Cape, London, 1957)

Wellbeloved, Sophia, Gurdjieff, Astrology & Beelzebub’ Tales (Abintra Books,
Aurora (Or.), 2002)

Whitehead, Alfred North, Process and Reality (Free Press, New York, 1969)

Wilber, Ken, Eye to Eye: The Quest for a New Paradigm (Shambhala Publications,
Boston (Ma), 1983)

Wilber, Ken, Up from Eden: A Transpersonal View of Human Evolution
(Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1983)

Wilber, Ken, (Ed.), The Holographic Paradigm (Shambhala, Boston (Ma.), 1985)
Wilber, Ken, The Atman Project (Quest Books, Wheaton (Ill.), 1989)

Wilson, Colin, G. Gurdjieff? The War Against Sleep (The Aquarian Press,
Wellingborough, 1986)

Wilson, Louise L., Catalogue of Cycles (Foundation for the Study of Cycles,
Pittsburgh (Pa.), 1964)

Yau, Shing-Tung and Nadis, Steve, The Shape of Inner Space: String Theory and
the Geometry of the Universes Hidden Dimensions (Basic Books, New York, 2010)

Zukav, Gary, The Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics
(William Morrow, New York, 1979)

202

--- PAGE 219 of 225 ---

[OCR] 38.2% 4-5, 57n, 98

0.382 4, 46, 48, 49, 97, 136
50% 58, 90, 107, 136
61.8% 4-5, 57n, 98

0.618 3n, 4, 6, 15-16, 46, 48, 49, 97,
98n, 116-17, 136, 137, 142

0.666 5-6, 38, 54-5, 56, 57, 153, 183
0.866 34-5

100% 58, 95

38% 46, 118

62% 46, 111, 117-18

666 11-14, 15, 19, 20, 22-3, 38-9, 46,
48-51, 104, 116, 183

1061 27-30, 32-3, 41-2, 45-6, 47, 118,
183

1080 14-15, 19-20, 22-3, 46, 48n, 49,
116

Akerlof, George xiii

Aland, Kurt xv, 12n, 26, 16n
Apollo 42, 45, 48

Aries, astrological age of 36
astrology 2, 3, 8n, 94, 103n, 104n

Bandura, Albert 84n

Bateson, Gregory 17n, 49n, 82n, 134n
bear 85-6,

bear market 76, 88

behaviour

collective xiii-xiv, 6, 24, 80, 81, 83-6,
89, 91, 94, 101, 113, 125, 136, 137,
145, 160-2, 174+5, 190

non-rational xiii, 14, 94,

Index

rational xii, 14, 84, 85, 94
Bennett, John 60, 127n
Bentoy, Itzhak 63n
Bible 6-7, 9n, 11-12, 15, 24, 25, 95
Big Bang 178
Bode'’s Law 65n, 66n
Bohm, David 178
Bond, Bligh 11
bond market 99-100, 154, 170
brain 9n, 76, 82, 84
bull 76, 85, 86, 88
bull market 76, 105

Campbell, Robert 60
carrier wave 99, 157
Carter, Jimmy 171

circle 29-38, 41, 43-4, 49, 56, 61n, 67-
70, 73, 78, 79, 183, 195

diameter of 29, 31, 32, 33, 35, 56

circumference of 29, 35, 43, 56, 68-
9, 73579
of Jonas 30, 34, 183

collective
behaviour xiii-xiv, 6, 24, 80, 81, 83-
6, 89, 91, 94, 101, 113, 125, 136,
137, 145, 160-2, 174+5, 190

beliefs ix, xiii

learning 94

mood ix, xiii

optimism 156, 157, 190
pessimism 157

psychology xiii, 85, 91, 156

203

--- PAGE 220 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

consciousness 9n, 20n, 30n, 32, 36, 62n,
82-3, 84, 126, 177, 195

contractions
inter-cycle 157, 166, 174

intra-cycle 154, 157, 165, 166, 170,
172

Cowan, Bradley 2n
crowd

behaviour xiii-xiv, 6, 24, 80, 81, 83-
6, 89, 91, 94, 101, 113, 125, 136,
137, 145, 160-2, 174+5, 190

psychology xiii, 85, 91, 156

cycle(s) xv, 6, 9, 23, 60-62, 69-70, 72,
73, 86-91, 96-8, 199-101, 108-9,
113, 117n, 120, 122, 132, 141, 143,
147-57, 160-74, 189-91, 193

40-month 90n

3.5-year 90, 167

10-year 108-109, 154, 190
22-year 155

30-year 154, 190

Cycle of Time 62

economic 86-91, 99-101, 108-9,
111-12, 122, 143, 153-6, 160-74,
189-91, 193

extra-terrestrial 2
higher-level 152, 156, 157, 172, 189

incorporation 165, 166, 167, 170,
171-3

inner octave 147-57

limit 86-8

of recurrence 73, 78

planetary 105

separation 162, 166, 167, 168, 170-2

sub- 147-8, 151-2, 154, 156, 160,
162, 166, 167, 168, 189

de Santillana, Giorgio 36n
doublings 54-5, 57-8, 107

Dow Jones Industrial Average 90, 167

Dyer, John x

earth 23-4, 28-30, 32-6, 43, 62, 66n,
176, 178, 183

204

life on 23, 176
economic

activity xiv, 6, 81, 89, 145, 153n, 154,
155, 156, 160, 161, 165

analysis 160-74
behaviour 113
contraction 121-2, 166-7, 170-2

cycles 86-91, 99-101, 108-9, 111-12,
122, 143, 153-6, 160-74, 189-91, 193

data 94
growth 156
history 154
indices 94, 174

oscillations xiv, 86-9, 91, 96, 100,
101, 111, 172

policy xiii, 58, 113, 154, 156, 162,
165, 170-1 174

recession xi, xiii, 153, 155-6, 165,
170-1, 190

recovery 113, 121-2, 142, 151, 152,
153, 154, 163, 166, 170, 171, 172-3

system xiii, 156, 161

theorists ix, xi-xiii, xiv, 83, 85n, 101,
113, 151n

Elliott, Ralph Nelson 89n, 105, 189n
energy
active 38, 46, 48, 49, 97, 116, 136
lunar 14

passive 4, 14, 19, 21, 23, 53, 55, 58,
73, 75, 77-9, 97, 104, 136-8, 145

solar 14-15

gap xiii, 61-2, 65, 67, 72, 74, 76-9,
96, 106-7, 110-11, 119, 151-3, 160,
161

enneagram 68-74, 76-80, 89-90, 93-4,
96, 106, 108-10, 113, 116n, 119,
124, 132-3, 139, 148, 151, 157,
176, 178, 189,

and the circle 68-74, 76-80
and financial markets 81-91
and the Law of Seven 71-2
and the Law of Three 72-4
and the octave 67-80

--- PAGE 221 of 225 ---

[OCR] and perpetual motion 68, 89

and the triangle 68-9, 73, 77, 79, 133
diatonic 79-80

pulse 71, 106, 108-10, 119, 124, 132,
176

crash of 1987 121-2

evolution xi, 6, 17, 20n, 23, 56, 61-2,
70-1, 73, 76, 78, 79, 82, 89, 96,
126, 128, 145, 155-6, 176, 177,
189
of thought 48-9

Fama, Eugene 101n
Federal Reserve 161, 163, 171
Fibonacci sequence 3, 98
Fideler, David 13n, 14n, 43n, 45
financial markets xii, 3, 56-8, 71, 76, 81-
91, 94, 99, 101, 107, 121, 136,
145, 155, 160, 170
panic of 2008 xi, 161
First World War 162
fission/fusion 84
force
active 21, 77,79

passive 4, 14, 19, 21, 23, 53, 55, 58,
73, 75, 77-9, 97, 104, 136-8, 145

third 4, 19-20, 21, 22, 25
Ford, Gerald 171
fractal pattern 89
freemason 9

Gann, William Delbert ix, xv, 2-6, 8-9,
23-4, 107, 111, 127-8, 131, 135-
42, 144-5, 147-57, 160, 162-3,
165-6, 168-9, 171-2, 177, 190,
193

and astrology 2

and the Bible 7, 25-7,

and the law of vibration xvi, 6, 93-
101

and financial market analysis 56-8,
99-101

financial market trading success xiv, 1

INDEX

The Magic Word 3, 9n, 177, 195-7
The Tunnel Thru The Air 3-6, 94-9,
113, 115, 159, 173-4, 175, 185-6,
squaring price with time 51n, 136-7,
139, 144

gematria xv, 11-15, 20n, 23, 26-30, 33,
38n, 39, 41-2, 45, 47, 49, 56n,
68n, 105, 118-20, 123-4, 139
geometric mean 22

geometry 2, 3, 11n, 27, 28-30, 43, 45,
47, 49, 51, 136, 139, 177

Golden Measure 3, 16-17, 22

Golden Number 16, 49

Golden Proportion 16-18

Golden Ratio 3n, 4-6, 15-18, 19-23, 25,
42, 45-6, 47-51, 57n, 66n, 96-99,
111n, 116-18, 119n, 136-44, 174

Golden Rectangle 22n, 50, 51, 139, 141,
142, 143, 144

Gospel xv, 6n, 7, 20n, 25-6, 28-9, 33,
39, 41, 42, 82, 94, 115-26, 145,
156-7, 159, 175-6, 178, 181-2

government 58, 161, 170

activity xiii, 156
intervention xii, xiii
spending xiii

Great Depression 162

Greek 12-15, 26-8, 29, 36, 41-3, 45, 48-
9,51, 54, 56, 68, 115-16, 119,
125-6, 151n, 178, 179, 181-2,
183-4

Guna rajasic 14, 19n
Guna satewie 14n, 19
Guna tamasic 14, 19
Gurdjieff, George Ivanovitch xv-xvi,
121-2, 126, 127-8, 131-3, 135,
140-2, 175-6, 189-91
Beelzebubs Tales to His Grandson 8-
9, 103-9, 117n, 156, 187-8
burying the dog 103, 127
enneagram 68, 80, 89-90, 93-4, 116n
Law of Three 23
Law of Seven 58, 60, 159

205

--- PAGE 222 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

Law of Vibration 103-113

halvings 54-5, 57-8, 107
harmonic ratios 63

harmonic structure to spiritual texts 11-
12

Hayes, Michael 56, 104n
Hebb, Donald 76, 134
heptad 117
Hermes 42, 45, 48
hidden vibration

Gann 93-101

Gurdjieff 105-113

St. Matthew 115-126
hierarchy 82-3

of cycles 87, 156

of power 22
Holy Spirit, The 15, 23, 36n, 42, 63n
Holy Trinity 23n, 42, 116
human heartbeat 123-5

Ichazo, Oschar 60
Ifo Institute 190
implicate order 178
industrial production

UK 153-4, 156

US 108, 112, 160-74, 193
information

absorption xii-xiii, 84, 112-13, 134,
145, 160

revolution 155

shock xi-xiv, 73-80, 87-8, 96-7, 100,
112-3, 122, 133-5, 139, 145, 147-8,
151, 155-7, 160-2, 165, 170, 172,
174

technology 108
Institute for Supply Management (ISM)
108

integrative tendency 83, 84-6

inter-cycle hiatus 163, 165-6, 168-9,
171, 172, 174, 193

206

Jesus xv, 23n, 32, 33, 36, 47, 51-2, 116-
8,125

Jonah 26-7, 41, 45-7, 51, 115-6, 118n,
119-121, 123, 125-6, 137
Jonah or Jonas 26-7, 121, 123, 137
Jonas 41-51, 118, 120, 139-40, 183
sign of the prophet xv, 7-8, 25-39,
94, 115-6, 125, 127

Keynesian economics xiii
Knickerbocker Trust collapse 162
Krausz, Robert 3n

Kuhn, Thomas 59n

Laszlo, Ervin 21
law cosmic 9, 60, 128, 174, 176
law of Octaves 6n
Law of Seven xvi, 6, 8, 56, 59-66, 70, 77,
80, 91, 93, 107, 117, 148, 156, 147, 175
and the enneagram 71-2
and the musical octave 63-6
Law of Three xvi, 4-6, 8, 19-24, 53, 55,
56, 68n, 91, 93, 96-8, 104, 116-8,
133, 135, 148, 151n, 157, 174,
176, 177

in Greek philosophy 42-5
and the enneagram 72-4
and the musical octave 58

Law of Vibration ix, xvi, 2-3, 6, 7, 8, 9n,
58, 62, 71, 73, 91, 101, 113, 117,
159, 165-6, 168, 174, 167, 177

Lawlor, Robert 16n, 22n

le Bon, Gustave 85n

Lea, Simcox 11

learning 13, 88, 94, 133-4, 145, 197
pattern 74-6, 152, 160

Lebergott, Stanley In

Levarie, Sigmund 63n

Levy, Ernst 63n

life cycle 62n, 85

Livio, Mario 6n, 15n

Lucas, Robert xiii

--- PAGE 223 of 225 ---

[OCR] Malkiel, Burton 101n
Mandelbrot, Benoit 89n
memory 76, 123

Michell, John 11n, 12n, 14-15, 20, 23,
105

Middle C 53-4, 63

Mills, Henry 75, 134

moon 12n, 13, 14n, 15, 62, 142
Moran, Jim 12n

Mouravieff, Boris 62n

Murchie, Guy 63

music 6

octave 53-8, 62-4, 67,71, 77, 117,
119n

Muth, John xii

Naranjo, Claudio 60n
neo-classical economics xiii
Neumann, Erich xiv, 84n
neuroscience xii

New Testament 12, 23n, 26
Nikkei Stock Average 123
Nott, Charles 60, 104n
number of fusion 20, 116

octave 53-8, 62-4, 67, 71,77, 117, 119n
octave ascending 54-5, 58, 148, 152
rations within 63-5, 66, 72,

octave de
153

octave descending 54, 58, 110

octave triple 56-7, 72, 152

oil embargo 112

Orage, Alfred 9n, 104n

Ouspensky, Pyotr 60, 68, 108, 159, 160

paradigm shift 59, 61n, 75, 162, 165,
178

pentad 116
pentagram 116
phi 15

INDEX

pi 29, 56

Pisces, astrological age of 36, 52, 178
precession 36n

Prechter, Robert 89n, 105n

price pulse 71, 86, 88-90, 94, 132, 151

prices xi, xiv, 2, 82, 85-90, 93, 94, 100,
111-13, 136-9, 144, 154, 171

psychology xiii, 2, 85, 91, 155

recession xi, xii, 153, 155-6, 165, 170-1,
190

revelation ix, xv, 27, 42-3, 45, 48-9, 116,
126, 128, 178

revolution xi, 76, 78, 83, 108, 145, 155

Schonfield, Hugh 12n, 36n
Second World War 162, 169
self-assertive tendency 83

self-organisation 21n, 62, 74, 83, 88,
177

self-organising systems 81-2
Shakespeare, W/
Shiller, Robert xiii
shock

energy gap xiii, 61-2, 65, 67, 72, 74,
76-9, 96, 106-7, 110-11, 119, 151-3,
160, 161

exogenous xii, 151n

information xi-xiv, 73-80, 87-8, 96-
7, 100, 112-3, 122, 133-5, 139, 145,
147-8, 151, 155-7, 160-2, 165, 170,
172, 174

Skidelsky, Robert xii
Smith, Russell 55n
solar system 64-6

square(s) 29-33, 36-7, 41, 43-4, 50-1,
96, 106-7, 119, 136-42, 183

magic 12-13
diagonal of 12, 32-3, 43, 50
of the Son of man 30, 183
perimeter of 29, 30n.

Sun 12-13

iam xi

207

--- PAGE 224 of 225 ---

[OCR] TONY PLUMMER
THE LAW OF VIBRATION

squaring price with time 51n, 136-7,
139, 144

St. Matthew xy, xvi, 6n, 7, 20n, 25-6, 27,
28, 32-5, 39, 41-2, 45-8, 51-2, 56,
82, 94, 101, 115-126, 127-8, 131-
2, 135, 137, 139-40, 145, 151,
155-7, 159, 168, 174-6, 178, 181,
183

string theory 60

Tao, The 19
Tarnas, Richard 2n
Taurus, astrological age of 36

time 15, 17, 23, 27, 28, 34, 41-2, 45-52,
56, 68, 70, 90, 113, 115, 117, 139, 141-
4, 162, 167, 177-8

and the number 666 38-9

and the Vesica Piscis 183-4

and vibration 62

squaring price with 136-7, 139
tonic sol-fa 6, 54-5, 57, 64, 73, 77, 79,

152

triangle 68, 69, 73, 77, 79, 133, 195
triangle equilateral 4-5, 43, 44,79
triangle isosceles 4-5

Ulansey, David 36n
US Treasury Notes 154

Vesica Piscis 35-6, 38-9, 41, 44-9, 51-2,
and time 183-4

vessel of the fish 35-6, 39, 41

vibration
hidden 93-101, 105-113, 115-126

Law of Vibration ix, xvi, 2-3, 6, 7, 8,
9n, 58, 62, 71, 73, 91, 101, 113, 117,
159, 165-6, 168, 174, 167, 177

pattern of vibration xvi, 52, 95, 103,
115, 127-45, 153, 160, 169, 173,
174, 176, 191

Vietnam War 156, 170
Volcker, Paul 171

208

von Dechend, Hertha 36

Walker, Kenneth 60, 61n, 68n

‘Wall Street Crash 1

wave principle 189n

Wellbeloved, Sophia xv, 94-5, 104-5

whale, belly of the 7n, 26-9, 34-5, 39,
41, 45-6, 116, 118, 183

Whitehead, Alfred North 62
Wilber, Ken 21n, 22n, 62n, 83n, 126n
Wilson, Colin 8n, 9n

yang 14
yin 14

Zeus 42, 45, 48
Zodiac 36, 51, 105, 119, 126n, 178

--- PAGE 225 of 225 ---

[OCR] THE LAW OF VIBRATION

In The Law of Vibration Tony Plummer presents a new theory which he argues
is revealing of a fundamental truth about the deep-structure of the universe.
‘The Law is embodied in a very specific pattern of oscillation that accompanies
change and evolution. It can be found in fluctuations in stock markets and in
economic activity.

‘The research here suggests that the pattern was known about in antiquity
because it was buried in a short passage in St. Matthew's Gospel in the Bible.
It also suggests that it was known about in the early part of the 20th century
because it was concealed in the structure of books written by the renowned
stock market trader, William D. Gann, and by the mindfulness exponent,
George Gurdjieff. Both men chose to preserve their knowledge of the pattern
in a hidden form for some unknown future purpose.

Now, after 20 years of investigation, Tony Plummer tells the story of how the
pattern was originally hidden. Drawing on painstaking research on gematria,
the enneagram and financial market analysis, Plummer reveals the existence
of a behavioural pattern that may have profound implications for the way that
we view the world. Plummer’s work is elegantly structured and illustrated
throughout, It is an exciting and thought-provoking study for Gann enthusiasts,
and also for investors, economists and scientists who have an interest in the
laws that underpin systemic coherence and produce collective order.

Tony Plummer is the director of Helmsman Economics Ltd. He is a former
director of Hambros Bank Ltd, of Hambros Fund Management PLC, and of
Rhombus Research Ltd. He is a Fellow of the Society of Technical Analysts
in the UK, and was a Visiting Professorial Fellow in the Economics
Department at Queen Mary, University of London. He is the author of
Forecasting Financial Markets, which describes the influence of crowd
psychology on economic activity and financial market price behaviour.

Tony has worked and traded in financial markets since 1976, concentrating
primarily on bonds and currencies. He now specialises in strategic economic
and financial market analysis, and writes and lectures on group behaviour and
trading competencies.

meee
— os MAN