================================================================================
DOCUMENT: WDGann_The_Basis_Of_My_Forecasting_Method.pdf
Total Pages: 34
================================================================================


--- PAGE 1 of 34 ---

THE BASIS OF
MY FORECASTING METHOD
by W. D. Gann
(course on the “Gann angles,” 1935)
This E-Book is not to be sold.
It is a free educational service
in the public interest
published by
Gann Study Group

--- PAGE 2 of 34 ---

[OCR] R
WALL STRECT STOCK Sevrcton OVAL ECONOMIC Sociere
New Srogk Taeno Oeracron,

HowTo Mane Porte in GOMMOUITIEN Ww. DD, GAN NM

82 WALL STREET
NEW YORK 5, MN. ¥.

Sea Geiig ee ota Piediseaiek eeiais

Mathematica is the only exact science. All power under hoaven and on earth
ig given unto the man who masters the simple sciences of mathematics. Emerson
said: "God dees indeed geometrize." <Another.wise man said: "There ia nothing
in the uiiverse but mathematical points." Pythagoras, one of the greatest mathe—
maticions that ever lived, after experimenting with numbers and finding the
proofa ef dil natural laws, said: “Before God was numbers," He believed that
the vibration of numbers created God and the Diety. It has been said, “Figures
don't lie." Men have been convineed that numbers tall the truth and that all
problems can be solved by them. The chemist, engineer, astronomer would be lost
without the science of mathematics,

It ts so simple and easy to solve problems and gat correct answers and re—
sults with figures that it seems strange so few people rely on tham to forecast
the future of business, stoeks and commodity miarkets. Tho basic principles aro
@asy to learn and understand. No matter whether you-use geometry, trigonometry,
er calculus, You use the simple ruleo of arithmotic. You de only two things:
You increase or decreaasg,

There are: two kinds of numbers, odd and evan. We add numbers tegether,
which is increasing. We multiply, which is a aherter way to increoaa. We sub—
tract, which decreases, and we diyide, which also decreases: With the use of
higher mathematics, we find a quicker and easier way ta divide, subtract, add
and multiply, yet very simple when you understand it.

Everything in nature is mole and female, white and black, harmony or
inharmony, Tight and left, The market moves only two ways, up and down. There are
three dimensions which we know haw to prove--width, length and height. We use
three figures in geometry—-the circic, the square, and the triangle. We get the
square and triangle points of a circle to determine Points of. time, price and
space resistence, We use the circle of 360 degrees te measure Tima and Price.

There ane three kinds of angles--the vertical, the horizontal, and the
diagonal, which we use for measuring time ahd price movements. Wa use the square

ef odd and even numbers ta get net only the proof of market movements, but the
cause.

HOW TO MAKE CHARTS

Charts ard records of pest market movements. The futurs io but a repatition
of the past. There is nothing now. «As tha Bible saye——"Tho thing that hath
been, it is that whleh shall bo.” History repeats and with charta and rules we
determine when and how it is going to répeat. Therefore, the first and most
important point to learn is how to make charts correctly because if you make an
error in the chart, you will make an error in applying the rules to your trading.

--- PAGE 3 of 34 ---

[OCR] YHARLY CHART: You showld keep a yearly high and low chart, that is, recording

the extreme low and the extreme high price made during the
eglondar year on ong line, The spacing for the price can be used one point te
each 1/8 inch or two points or more, according ta the activity end range of the
stock,

MONTHLY CHART: You must always keep up a monthly high end lew chart, which is

the most importent chart of all in determining thea main trend,
This chart records the extréme high and extreme low price for the calendar month
on one line, and each space or 1/8 inch on the sross—seotien chart paper should
represent ono poimt or $1 per sharo.

WEEKLY CHART: The next end one of the very important charts to koop is a woekly

high end low chart. Where stocks are solling bolow 60, 1% usually
peya to make this ohart up using each 1/8 inch to reprosent one-half point, or
two spaces to reprasent one full point, or four points for each ono-inch space.
When stocks become very active, especially when thoy are solling above $100 por
share, then you can make up the wookly chart using oach space or 1/8 inch on the
chart paper tq represont ono point or $1 por sharo.

SEMI-WEEKLY OR 3-DAY CHART; The noxt chart of importance to the Wookly Chart is

a 3-doy chart, that is, taking tho oxtromo high and
extreme low price made from tho oponing of tho markot om Monday morning until tho
close on Wednesday night, closing the chart on Wodnesday night~ thon from tha
opening on Thursday to the close on Saturday, teking the extremo high ond low and
elosing the chert on Saturday. This gives you a timo poriod showing one-half of
the week, This chart is vory importent os will bo explained lator on in tho
instructions, Tho speeing for this chart cen be the samo as for tho wookly high
ond low chart.

WEEKLY MOVING-AVERAGE OR MEAN POINT: To got a Wookly Moving-Averugo, wo take

tho oxtrome low fer tho wook ond the ox-
trome high for the week ond divide by 2, getting the half-way or mean point for
the weak. This cam be recorded on the weekly high and low chart or on a soparate
chart, recording the Woekly Moving-Ave rage with a dot and using ono line on the
chart for each week, Importence of this Woekly Moan Point will be explained lete

DAILY CHART: When you ore trading in a stock that is active, you should alweys

koep up 4 deily high ung low chart, but for study purposes it is
enough to keep up the Weekly and:Monthiy Charts, which give you the main trond,
The Daily Chart shows the minor trend end shows a change in trond mich oftoner
thon ony of the other charts, but the indication doos not last as long or rm «60
fer, This chart showlé be kept up tho same as the others, oxcept when stocks ere
solling below 50 er whem they are in om inactive trading range- then tho spacing
should bo 1/2-point to each 1/8-inch on the chart popor, allowing two spacas to
represent ono full point or $1 per sharo. Whon stocks arg ostive ond advoneing
vory fast, making e wide, renga cach day, thon you can make tho Daily Chart the
same os the Wockly or Monthly, that is, using one point for each 1/8-inoh on the
chart papor, This sposing cuts the chart down and keeps it im a rango where it
is casy to soo and road when fluctuntions are wide.

No spooos oro skipped on the Daily Chart for holidays or Sundays, therefore
the time period is for actual market days and not calendar days, However, you
should carry tho calendar days along at loast ovary two weeks, as lator, under
rules for Timo Periods for chango in trend, you will find that it is necessary
to check up and know when tho stock is 30, 60, 80, 120, 135, ote. days from a tep

--- PAGE 4 of 34 ---

[OCR] or a bottem, which moans calondor doys, the exact moneuremont of Time for tha
deily chart. Often tho Daily Chart on actual daily movements comes out on tn
oxect mathomatice] angle of timo measurement ot the same time the calendar days
soma out on exact timo measurement, molding it a doubly important point for chongo
in trond.

GEOMETRICAL ANGLES

ifter long yours of practical axporienca, I have discovered that Geometrical
Angles measure ascurntely Spsoo, Time, Volume and Price.

Methematias is the only exact seiense, as I hove said before. Every nation
on the face of the earth agrees that 2 and 2 make 4, no matter what language it
speaks, Yet all other sciences are not in accord as mathematical science. Wa
find different mon in different professions along scientific lines disugresing
on problems, but there can be no disagreement in mathematical ealewletion.

There ere 560 degroas ina circle, no matter hovlarge or how small the circle
may bo. Cortain numbors of these degrees and angles aro of vast importance and
indicate when important tops and bottoms occur on stocks, as well as denote
importent Resistonoo Levels, Whon ones you havo thoroughly mastored tho Coometri-
eal fnglos, you wil] be uble te solve any problem ond determine tha trond of any
atoak,

After 35 years of research, tests and practical applicetions, I have per=
fected ond proved the most important anglos to bo used in determining the trond
of tho stock market, Therefore, concontrato on those angles wmtil you thorough-
ly Understond thom. Study and experiinont with each rule I give you, end you will
male a succoss.

We use geometrical engles to measure Space and Time »eriods because it is a
shorter and quicker method than addition or multiplication, provided you follow
the rules and draw the engles or lines accurately from tops and bottoms or ex-
treme highs and lows, You may make a mistake in: addition or multiplication, but
the geometrical angles accurately drawn will conreot this mistake, For exemple:
If you should count across the bottom of your chart 120 spaces, which represents
120 deys, weeks, or months, then you begin at "G" and numbor vertically on your
chart up to 120—- then from this top point at 120 draw a 45-dogroo angle moving
down, this will come out at "Oo" on 120 poimts over from the beginning. If you
have mode a mistake in numbering, this will correct it,

‘ingles drawn on 6 chart alwoys koop bofore you the position of tho stook ond
its trond whereas if you had a resistonce point on time written dowm, you might
iIislay it or forget it but these angles aro always on the shart in front ef you,

These ongles or moving-average trend lines correctEy drawn will keep yeu from
making mistakes or misjudging the trond. If you wait ond follow your rules, these
engles will show you when the trond changes.

The moving-averago as commonly used is obtained by taking tho extreme low
price end the extreme high price of the calondar day, waek or month, ond dividing
it by two to get the moon or average price for the day, weak or month, and con-
timuing this at tha ond of oach-time pericd, This is en irrogular movenent in
spaces or points per weak beceawse ob ono time Jt moy move up 2 points per week

--- PAGE 5 of 34 ---

[OCR] end at encther 5 pointe por wook, while tho tima porded is a4 rogulor unit. Thero-
fore goometrioal angles, which oro roally moving-oaverages, move wp or down ob on
uniform rete from ony bottom or top on a dally, wookly or monthly chart.

thera are three important points thot we san prove with mathematics or
geometry: the Circle, the Square, and the Triangle, After I have mado the Square
I can drew o Circle in it using the same diameter, and thereby produce the Thd-
engle, the Squares and the Circle.

The Angles or moving-trend=line averages measure and divide Time end Price
inte proportionate parts. Refer to Form "1", where I have dravm the square of
28. You will note thet this is 28 high end 28 wide- in other words, 28 up and
26 eeross, It is the same as a square room which has a bottom or floor, a top or
welling, ond side wnlis, Everything has width, length, ond height.

Ey an BOSneeee [ _
“eb bide tae ER EEE-FEF-

PTs
|

SCHAAR EERE ECR Ege eR
SEECEEEEEERE PREPRESS

To get the strongest end most important points in this Square, I divide it
inte two equal parts by drawing o horizontal ond a vertieal lino. Wote angle
marked "A! which divides cach of the smaller squares into two equal parts ond
runs from "0" to "28" diagonally, This is a diagonal line moving on a 45° ongle
and divides the lergs Square into two equal parts, Then note angle "B" ot 14"
running horizontally across, This divides tho Square into tro equal parts, Note
engle "O", which is a vertical line, running up from "14", whioh is one-half of
28", This crosses wt the contor or half-way point at 14, whore the other onglos
oresa, dividing tho Square dnte two ogual party, Thenenete angle "DO", which
forms cnother 459 onple moving from tho N. W. corner to the S, E. cornor, cross—
ing "14" at the oxact half-way point, You soa by this that if wo draw the first
dino thru the sonter of tho square, we divide it inte two equal parts— then when

--- PAGE 6 of 34 ---

[OCR] we draw lines from the other directions, we divide it imte four equal parts—
then by drawing the two lines from eech corner, we divide the square into & equal
parts and produce 6 triangles.

As you look at this Square, it should be easy for you to tell with your eye
where the strongest support point is or resistance point is. It is at the center
where all the angles cross. Four angles cross at this point, so naturally this
would be a stronger support point than a place where only one angle crosses. I
could civide each one of these smaller squares into four or eignt equal parts by
drawing angles in the same way. Later, when I give you the rules and examples,
Iwill explain how to square the Range of a stock, that is, the difference be-
tween the extreme low and the extreme high prices, or the difference between any
low point and any high point, and also how to sauare the bottom price. For ex-
ample: If the top of a stock is 28, this Square of 2& x 28 would represent
squaring the Price by Time, because if we have 28 points up in Price, and we move
over 28 spaces in Time, we square the Price with Time. Therefore, when the stock
has moved over 28 days, 28 weeks, or 28 months, it will be squaring its price
range of 26,

PATTERN CHART FOR GEOMETRICAL ANGLES _

The Square of 90, or the Pattern Chart, shows all the measured angles that
are important to use in determining the position of a stock. These angles are as

follows: 32, 7d, 15, 18%, 264. 30, 333, 374, 45, 524, 56%, 60, 638, 71d, 75,
624, S864, and OO degrees.

It is not necessary to measure these angles with a protractor. All you have
to do to get the angles correct is ta count the spaces on the chart paper, using
&x 6 to the inch, and draw the lines or angles accordingly.

On the square of 90, which you will receive with these instructions, note
how equal angles drawn from the top and from the bottem prove themselves by the
point at which they cross, For example:

The angle of & x 1 drawn from "0" and the angle of & x 1 drawn from "90"
down both cross at 45, 5-5/6 points over from "0" counting to the right. Then,
the angle of 4 x 1 from "O" and the angle of 4 x 1 down from "90", you will
notice, cross at llé on 45, equidistant from the other angle and twice the
measure. The reasan why these anglea prove this way is because the 45° angle
or 43 points or degrees from "6" to 45 is one-half of 90 Therefore, parallel
angles beginning at "0" going up and at 90 coming down, must cross on a 45° angle
or at the gravity center,

_ HOW TO DRAW ANGLES FROM A LOW POINT RECORDED BY_A STocK

An example marked "Form 2" shows you the most important angles to use when
@ stock is working higher and advancing. (See page 6)

FIRST IMPORTANT GEOMETRICAL ANGLE:

The first and always most important angle to
45 or lxi

draw is a 45-degree angle or a moving-average
that moves up one point per day, one point
per week or one point per month. This is a 45° angle because it divides the Space
and Time Periods inlo two equal perts As long as the market or a stack stays
above the 45° angle, it is in a strong position and indicates higher prices. You
can buy every time a stock rests on the 45° angle with a stop less order one, two
er three points under the 45° angle, but remember the rule— never use a stop

--- PAGE 7 of 34 ---

[OCR] GA~5

losa order more thon 3 points away, Unless stooks ore noor the low levels or
just starting in a bull market or selling at vary low prices, I abvays usaa stop
less order one point wider the 45° angle. If this ongle is broken by one point,
you will usually find thet the trend has changed at least temporarily and tho
stock will go lower,

An cosy way to caloulate accurately haw to put on this 48° ongle is:
For oxamplo: If the timo is 28 duys, 20 woeks, or 28 months from the point where
the stock was bottem, then the angle of 45° mist bo 28 points up from the botton
and would cross ot 28. This is one of the ebsiast angles to put on and one of
tho simplost to lear, You can boat the market by trading agoinet tha 45° onglo
alono if you atick to the rule-— wait to buy a stock on the 45° emglo or wait to
sell it against the 45° ongle.

ian

Pri ay" ro

FEEEEEEEA : ek che - “oF

ne ey

J i |

f
I
I
=
1
i
f

ctHH+-+* = [CPE ERE

NEXT IMPORTANT ANGLE is the angle of 2.x 1, or the moving-average which moves up

2x at the rate of 2 points per day, week or month. It divides

the space between the 45-degres engle and the vertical

engle into two equal parts and measures 632° That is why it is the next strong-
ast and most important angle. As long as a stock holds above this angle, it is
in a stronger position than when it is resting oh a 45° angle because it is a
more acute angle. When a stock breaks wider this angle of 2x 1, or two points
for each time porled, then it indicates that it will .g0 lower and reach the 45°
angle. Remember tho rule of all ogles: No matter what angle the stock breaks
under, it indicates a decline to tho noxt angle bolow it.

--- PAGE 8 of 34 ---

[OCR] THIRD IMPORTANT ANGLE, which is st4il stronger as Long as a steck holds above it,

bo is the onglo which moves up 4 points per day, wook, or

month, This angle is 4x1, or 4 points of Spaco equal

one period of Time. It moasures 75° and divides the space between the angle of
2x 1 and the 90° angle into two equal parts. d#ny stock thet continues to advance
# points per day, 4 points per week, or 4 points per month, and remoine above this
angle ig in a vory strong position as long as it stays ebove it, bub when it
breaks undor, it indicates the noxt angle or next support point according to the
pesition of tho stock on Tima,

FOURTH IMPORTANT ANGLE is tho angle of 8 x 1 or the one that moves up 8 points
&xl ber day, week or month, This angle moasures B2h°, As
long as a stock can hold above this angle on daily, woeke
ly or monthly chart, it is in the strongest possible position, but when it rever-
ses trond ond declines below this angle, then it indicates a dooline to the next
angle.

NEXT ANGLE; It is possible to uso an angle of 16 x 1, or 16 points of Price to
16 ox one poried of Time, which measures 862°, but this anglo is only used
in fast, advancing markets, like 1929, when stocks ara moving up or
down 16 pointe or moro por wock or par tenth. There are very few stocks that
will move up 16 points per day, wook or month, and vory seldom,

You will note that with thesu four importent angles we show tha strong or
vublish side of the market, All tho time by dividing the Spooo with onglos we
are getting the half-way point or tho gravity center of Time and Prices.

Sx 2 ANGLE: Nete the anglo drawn in Groen, marked "3x i", which moves up at tho

rate of 3 points per day, week or month, measuring Tle, This
anglo is important of times after markets have had a prolonged advonce and are a
long distance up from the bettem. It is an important angle to use on Monthly end
Wookly charts,

These are all the ongles you need os long as 4 stock continues to advanco
ond work up end stays above the angle of 45° or the moving-uverage of ons point
per day, wook or month.

Whilo thera ore 560 dogroes in a circle ond angles can form ot any of thaso
degrees, o11 of tho important angles form betwoen “O" ond "90" bocause 90 is
straight up ond down ond the most acute angle on which a steck can rise. For
exemple: The 45° ongle divides the spoce from "OY to "90" in half. The angle
of 155° is simply another angle of 45° becouse it is one-half of tho noxt quadrant
between 90 ond 160, 225 and 315 in a circle are also 45° englos. Thorefere all
of the anglos valuable in determining tho trend of a stook nro found Betwaen "oO"
and "SO" degroos. Whon we divide 90° by 8 we got the most important unglos to
uso- thon divide it by 3 wo got 30 and 60° englos, which are important to use for
Timo ond Rosistence Points.

WHAT KIND OF BOTTOMS TO DRAW ANGLES
OR MOVENG-AVERAGE LINES FROM

DATLY CHART; If a stock has beon doslining for some timo— then starts to rally
(py rallying from a bottom it must make higher bettoms every day
ond higher tops)— thon after c Sday rally on the daily high ond Low chart, you
son put on tho 45° ongie and the angle of 2 x 1 frem the bottom or low point, As
a rulo, it will only bo necossary to pub on these tyro angles oat first. If this

--- PAGE 9 of 34 ---

[OCR] bottem holds and ta not broken, then you san put on the other ungluo from the
bottom,

WEEELY CHANT: If a stock is declining and yveoots for morc than one wook and can-
tinves down, wo will sey, for thrae wooks or mora, then starts

te relly ond advances two wooks or moro, you would start to put the angles on

from the low point of thu decline, only using the anglos above tho 45° angle

until the stock again breaks under the 45° angle- aftor that you would use tho

othor onglos on the lowor or bearish side of tha Saunora,

WHAT TO DO APTER THE 46° ANGLS FROM BOTTOM TS BROKEN

After a stock makes top, cithor temporary or otherwise, and breaks under tho
45° ongle and starts moving dowm, then the first thing you do is to draw angles
below the 45° ongle, starting from the bottom or Low point. Note example marked
"Porm ¥/S";

“LE Ley | Gey genpepe LLrrre
GE BoP seoSSSECeEEEssaee
F i
Ct
= 4+--E Er t- FEES
- | _ [tf [i
— a CI
coy f -
a
= EE a
ae tae ol
kg FE
eeEEEEHE OEE CHEEEE -|

FIRST ANGLE ON BEAR SIDE OF THE SQUARE: Tho first angle thet you draw on the
2x1 bear sida of the Square is the ongls

of 2x lor 2 points over and one point

up, Which moves ot the rete of one-half point per day, weok or momth and measures

263°, This is the first support engle which the stock should rench after it brook
under the 45° angle, As o generol rule, when the stock reaches this angle, it

--- PAGE 10 of 34 ---

[OCR] =r

will roooive support ond rally. Somotimeys it will rest on it for ao lenge period
of tame, holding on this angle ond melcing higher bettoms, But when this omgle
of 2x1, or moving-oavorage of ono-half point per day, weok or mowth is broken,
thon you must drew the next angle of 4 x 1,

NEXT IMPORTANT ANGLE: The next important angle on tho boar side of the Squaro,
x 1 which moves up ab tho rate of 1/4-point por day, is tha
englo of 4.x 1, moasuring 15°, Tt will be tho next strong
support angle which the stock should got support on and rally from,

NEXT ANGLE 8 x 2: Thon after tho 4x 1 angle is broken, the noxt important

engle that you will put on your chart is the anglo of & x l,
which moves at the rato of 1/8-point por day, woek or month end measures 72°,
This is often a very strong support ongle. Aftor a stock has had a big decline,
it will often rest on this onglo goveral timos or moy make final bottom ond
start up from this anglo, crossing othor angles and gotting back into a strong
position again, Thorefore this engle is important to uso on « monthly or woukLly
chart after o prolonged decline,

ANGLE 16 x 1: This englo can be usod on o monthly chart after a long period of
timo has elepsod from ah important bottom, It movos at the rate
of 1/16 point per month and moasures 32°,

ANGLE OF $ x 1: This anglo, dravm in rok ink, is a vory important ongle,

Incasuring 18629, 1 strougly advise using it st all timos and
keoping it up on monthly sharts from any important bottom, It con elso bo used
to adventago at times on wookly charts, but is seldom of mech valuc on a daily
chort, It moves ot the rete of ono-third point por day, week, or month, By
drowing this on the monthly chart for a long period of yoars, you will soon bo
convinood of its value and also by tosting 1t on o weekly chart, will find it
valuable.

This completes all of the angles that you will need to use from any botten
at any tine.

HOW TO DRAW ANGLES FROM TOPS
ON DAILY, WEEKLY OR MONTHLY CHARTS
—— ee

POSITION UNDER 45° ANGLE DRAWN PROM TOP; after a stook has mede top end declined
for o rensonable length of time, say,
three days, three weeks or three months, breaking previous bottoms, then you
start to draw angles down from the top. Noto example marked “Form #4", whioh is
the pettern for drawing angles from the top under the 45° angle, (see page 10)

45° ANGLE FROM TOP; The first angle you dray is the angle of 45° or a moving-
average which indicates a decline of one point per day, week

er month. As long as the stock is below this angle, it is in the weakest position
and in o bear morket,

OTHER ANGLES: In mony cases a stack will start doc lining on average of & points

per day, week or month, or 4 points par day, woek or month, or 2
points per day, week or month, thorofors you should put on oll of thosa angles
from the top, whieh move down faster than tho angle of 45°,

WEAKEST POSITION: Tho stock is in the weakest possible position when it declinos
ond keeps under tho angle of 8x 1, Tt ds in tha noxt woak.

--- PAGE 11 of 34 ---

[OCR] UE=I0

est position whon it is dropping down at the rate of 4 points par day, week or
month, or under the angle of 4x 1. It is in its next weakest position when it
is dropping down wnder the angle of 2x 1,

STRONGEST Position: The stock is im a stronger position and indicates a better

rally when it crosses the angle of 2x 1, but this depends
on how far it is down from the top and how far the ongles are apart, os will be
explained later under the rules.

CHANGING TREND: As long as a stock is declining one point per day, week or
month, or falling bolow or under tha 45° angle, it is still in
a bear market and in a very weak position, When a steck rallies and crosses the
angle of 45° after a prolonged declins, then you are ready to put on the anglos
on the other side of the 45° angle, which shows that the stock is in ea stronger
position in a bear market end may be getting ready to change into o bull market,

OU EeEEeCEReTECece reer: ary
H ae Se poh Pe Hy
Ch 4 Te a) nn)
Pcie Iolo 7
SSEERCCESE rere as
aa 7] | =
NREL Neb icicic 4
=A
SHEET ERASE SRE :
tel eee
CI =| a]
rey i ‘ x | Ty
rx i: Ee RS
Fr Patt c
CC ae ie CeNGrCrrec tr My
| -}.-|-[.| | - i: -
a" — r]
: 7
“EERE +4 +H
| PEPE “TI
eo =
a ee “pry . =
i
SESH HEE FH

POSITION ABOVE 45° ANGLE DRAWN FROM TOP

Refer to Form #5, which is the pattern for drawing engles above tho 45°
angle from the top. (Seo nage 11)

2x 1 ANGLE FROM TOP: Tho first angle or moving-averoge you draw after tha 45°
englo from the tep is creased and after tho steck indi-

--- PAGE 12 of 34 ---

[OCR] GALL

gatos thet it has mado a temporary hottem ds tho angle of 2 x 1, moving over 2
pointe ond dovm ono point, or 1/2—polnt por wit of Time. This is moving down
at the rate of 1/2-point por month, woek or day,

4 x 1 ANGLE; The noxt is the angle of 4x 1 which moves dow at tho rate of
L/4-point per day, wook or month.

8 x 1 ANGLE; The noxt angle is the angle of 8 x 1, which moves down at tho rate
of one point every 8 days, 8 woeks or 8 months, or 1/8-point per

time poried. hyo COCO Ceo C i
a i
_| So Ean
—j)—|—| |_| SS Sed :
ARERR ARE Pa Ps ep its i.
PEE SRE
EAA-E aoe an me
Ci i= C
HA-PEEAAA ry
tH EEE rH
: L
reyes aaa
_ te we et Ae 4 eer
2 ae | f i ’
ote cE EEEEH EAE HEE EEE E-EEEFER-EEEER

STRONG POSITION; After tho stock has croggad the angle ef 45¥ od rallied up

to the angie of 2x 1, it will moot selling and react to some
angle coming up from the bottom of the last move, bit it. is im a stronger
position whon it holds above this angle of 2 x 1 ond is in the next strongost
position when it crosses tho mngle of 4 = 1, Grossing the ongle of 6 x 1, which
is of loast Impertanoo, it indicates thet it is in a very strang position again
from the top. You must always consider a movoment coming up fron bottom and its
position on englos from the bottom to determine its atrongth, Is is important
to consider. the numbor of points it hos moved up from the bottom ond how many
points it is dowm from the top,

ox 1 ANGLE; The angle of $ x 1 drovm in red on Form #S moves down at the rate

of One point every thraa days, throo wooks or throo months, or ona-
third point por dey; week or month, This angle is impertont to use after pro—-
longed doclinos.

This completes the forms of 211 the angles that yeu will moed.to uso at any
time from tops or bottoms, Practica putting thoso angles on tops and bottoms un-
til you thoroughly understand how to do thom and lmow that you are gotting thom

--- PAGE 13 of 34 ---

[OCR] GAa12

absolutely accurate. Thon you oan bogin to study the rules for dotermining the
trend according to tho position of the stock on ongles,

DOUBLE AND IRIPLE TORS OR BOTTOMS

ANGLES CROSSING EACH OTHER: Whon there is a doublo bottem several days, wooks

or months apart, you draw ongles from these bettoms,
which are near the some price levels, For example: From the first bottom draw
a 45° onglo ond from the second bettom draw an angle of 2 x 1l- then whon these
angles cross each other, it wil], be an important point fer a change in trend,
Note on chart marked Form #6 that I have drawn tho 45° engle from the first bot-
tom "1B" end the angle of 2 x 1 on the right hand side of the 45° engle. Then,
from the second bottom "2B" I hava drawn a 45° angle and the engle of 2 x 1,
which gains 2 points por day, weak or-wonth, on the left hand or bull side of the
45° engle, You will note that the angle of 2x 1 from the second bottom crosses
the angle of 2 x 1 on the bear side from the first bettom ot 48, amd that when
the stock breaks under these ongles, a change in trend takes placa and it goes
lower,

Note thet the angle of 2 x 1 from the third bottom "3B" crosses tho anglo
of 2% 1 on the bear sido from the first bottom at 55% and crosses the 45° angle
from fhe second bottom at 58. This would be a point to wetch for change in trond.
I have placed a girale where thosa angles from tho different bottoms como togethor

Apply this rule to double tops and triple tops in the samo way. It is not

heoossary for tho tops or bottoms to he oxeotly et tho some price leval, but
near tho samo level. Romomber, eiways draw 45° anglos from oll importont tops
ond bottoms, : . . bo
. ! went EEE Peer joe
a i 1 7
on f
i ALE aaaad
i i
Has . 41 Lo Ae — =||-\4)-|-. |}
= i
| i }
| 1
——R—
oT i I
Perey 7 =
_ ne a CT j
er CC -
EEEEE “PRCEEEEE ---L-A eB aa
am - Litre 1 I
PARALLEL ANGLES
Parollol anglos or lines run from important tops ond bottoms. As previously
explained, the 45° onglo is the most important ond should bo drawn from ali

important tops and bottoms. If a atock starts advenoing, wo draw a 45° onglo from
the bottom- thon if the stocic makos top, declines and makes o higher bottem— then

--- PAGE 14 of 34 ---

[OCR] GA-13

advoncos ond mokos o highar top, we drow a 45° anglo from tha first top, running
the lino up. Thies will givo tho oscillation or width of fluctuation in a parallel
betweon the 45° augle from the bottom ond the 45° angle ruoning up from the tep,
Often a stock will advance to the 45° omgle from the first top, fail to oress it,
then decline and rest on the 45° engle from the first bottom- then advence again,
working up for a prolonged bull oampaign between those parallel mglos.

When the angleg ore very fer epart, you caw draw another. 45° angle aqui-
distant between them, which is often oa strong subpert angle from which o stock
will rally, but whon it breaks under, it declines to the bottom parallel.

Farollels con form between the omglas of 2 x 1 or 4 «1 just the samo os
between 45° onglos, which often oceurs in slow-moving atocks,

GEOMETRICAL ANGLES OR MOVING-AVERAGE LINES
DRAYN FROM "oO"

When a stodk roaches bottom ond storts up, you have been instructed to draw
ongles from this exact low point, whioh shows the support in time poriods, but
there aro other ongles thet later on will ba just as important and somotimos more
important ‘then tho angles drawm from the bottom of a stock, Thase are tho anglos
that begin et “O" or sero and move up at the somo rate that they move up from tho
bottem, The starting point mast be on the sama line that the bottom is made on
as the time poriod bogins from this bottom, but the angles move up from "Oo",
These anglos should bo started ovory timo a stock makes a bottom, ospooinily on
wookly ond monthly charts, und should also bo carriod Gp on important movements
on the daily chart, Exomple: Soo chart marked Form g{7 on page 14.

If a stooly makes low at 20, as shown on the chart, starting the 45° angle
from "O", whon will this angle reach 207 Answer: ‘It will reech 20 in 20 days,
20 wooks or 20 months from the bottom or its starting point. In other words, in
20 days, 20 wooks, or 20 months, it will be up 20 from "0" ond at tho price where
the stock made bottom, Then tho mele will continue on up at the same rate, and
later, when the stock breaks under the 46° angle from the actual bottom made at
20 and breaks the other support angles dravm from the actual bottom of 20, the
next important point for support will be the angle of 45° moving up from "0",
When this engle is broken, it is in the weakest Possible position and indicates
mich lower vrices, but this depends on how high the stock is -selling and how
much it has declined at the time it breaks the 45° angle from "0", These angles
drawn from "0", espectally the 45° angle, proves when Price and Time aro balanc—
ing or when the stock is squaring out. from its bottom,

"O" ANGLES STARTING AT THE TIME TOP Is MADE
re EL Ee

When a ateck reshhes extreme top on a daily, weekly or monthly chart and the
trend turns dam, you should start an ‘angle of 45° from "po" moving wo from the
exeot space and date that tha top is mado, This will preve the square of the
time period, It is very important when this angle is reached and indicates a
chenge in trond, It is the last strong support and whon broken, it will indicate
much lower prices.

T hove imatructed you in oach case to first draw the 45? ongle from bottom,
top ond from "0" at bottom ond top, but this dues not moan that you must not uso
the othar angles. ALl of tho other angles can be used from “ot, bat tho 45°
ongio is the first ond most important. After this anglo is broken, thon you con
uso tho other ongles, It is not necessary to carry all of them along until you

--- PAGE 15 of 34 ---

[OCR] GaA-14

neod thom, but on the monthly chart, after a long sories of yoors, thase other
angles should be carried along when the stock begins to approach the levels
whordé thoy would bo brokon or whero the stook would rost on them ond recoivo
support.

45° ANGLE FROM "oO" TO TOP AND BOTTOM: When a 45° angle moving up from "0"

a roeoheas the line or price of the bottom,
dt 4a very inportent— thon again when 1t reaches the point of the oxtrema high
price, it is very important for a change in trend.

You should carry 45° ongles ond other angles up from “O" from all important
first, sacond, end third higher bottoms, especially those where vary much time
has elapsed between these bottoms, You should also start the angle of 45° up
from "0" from the first, second, and third lower tops, ospecially those which
show much time period slepsed, These mmgles are the most important to be carried
on the weekly and monthly charts.

Never overlook keeping up the angles from "0" because they will tell you
when Time is squaring out with Price from tops end bottoms end will locate sup—
port angles or moving-average lines eat a point on the bear side after the first
45° angle from o bottom is broken. You could not locate this support point in
any other way except by the angles from "9",

You should go back over past records and bring up these angles and square
out different tops and bottoms so that you can prove to yourself * the groat value
of using those engles,

--- PAGE 16 of 34 ---

[OCR] ANGLES FROM Tops. DOM TO "oO" AND UP AGATH

4 45° onglo starting down from any important tep on 4 monthly er wookly
chart should be continued dowm until it reaches "“O" end then started up again
ot the some rete, After o long number of years botween important tops ond bot—
toms, this ongle coming down and going up agein is importewt, A 45° onglo can
also be continued down from any important bottem-to "0" ond thon started up ogain.
This will show tho aquaring of Prise with Time from ocither top or bottom,

énglos can be started from "O" ot the time ony important time cyska runs
out. For exemple: U. S. Steel made extreme low in 1904. Moy, 1924 would be the
ond of a 20-yoor cycle or 120 months, In May, 1924 Steel made top at 109 against
a 45° onglo begiming ot "0" at the time bottem was mode at 38 in February, 1815.
On account of the importance of this top and « 20-year cycle running owt hero,
we would start a 45° angle end other angles, if wo noad them, from "0" in May,
is24,

May, 1931 would end a T-yoar cycle ef 84 months from 1924, The 45° ongle
running up from "oll in Moy, 1924 crossed ot 64 in May, 1831. Note that ‘St veol
made law ot 834 in June, 1951. In June, 1924 Steel made the Jest low at gab
showing tha importance of the ond of the 20-year cycle, The'45° angle moving up
from "O" in June, 1924 crossed at 84 in June, 1931, od Steol doclined and rested
on this ongle,.

TWO 45° ANGLES FROM THE SAME BOTTOM

As we have previously explainod, the 45° anglo moves Up at the rate of one
point per month and moves down at the rate of one point per month,

Refer to exemple on Chart She

cee ccer a .

—— —|—)__} |, . i

--- PAGE 17 of 34 ---

[OCR] or=ra

You will note that the lew en thts ohart is shown ns 62 ond the stock moves up

to uhigh of G3. a5t oigie ig drum up frem the bottom, and after the stock
reachos top ond starts to work dowm, it bronks the 45° ongle, gotting under it at
a prico of 59. You will note thet I havo dravm anothor 45° anglo dowm from tho
bottom at 52. At the point whore the stock broaks undor tho 459 onglo moving up
from 52 to tho 45° onglo moving dom from 52, the distanoa in points is 16, thero-
foro tho anglos have widened until tho stock could docling 16 points, if it wont
stroight dow, boforo it ronched tho 459 angle moving down from tho bottom,

Note thet I have shown $n tho chart that the stock continues dowm until it
ronchos 40, whore it rests on the 45° angle from the bettom at 52. This would
indioato the strongost support point and of loast o temporary rally, oepocially
as the stock ig down 23 points from the top, Later yeu will find under "Resist—
anco Levels" thet 224 to 24 points is a strong supvort point,

U. S. STEEL: Tako tho extromo low point of U, 8. Steel ot dit in Jonuery, 1927,

Start a 45° angle on the monthly chart moving wp ot tho rate of
one point per month- thon start 2 45° ongle moving down ot the samo roto, This
shows tho sproading of the angles and what con happon when Stoel broaks undor tho
45° snglo coming up from that bottom and tho point whero it con dacline in ox=
trome ponicky markets, like 1931 end 1932,

Tho 45° ongle coming up from the low of Jmuary, 1927 crossed ot 156 in
Ostobar, 1930, Whon U. S. Steel broko this onglo it wont right on down to 1342
an December, 1930, where it rested on the onglo of 2 x 1 from this bottom of Jonu-
ory, L827- then rallied te Fobruary, 1941, ond at tho tima it broke under the
angle of 45° from 1113, it was ot tho 45th month, mother indication of a sherp,
sevara doclino. Horo wo leek at tho 45° snglo moving down from 1113 ond find it
is $0 points dowm from the 45° angle moving up from 1114. These anglos soparcto
at tho rato of to points par month ond boing 45 months from tho bettem, tho stock
would have to docline 90 points to striko the 45° onglo moving dowm from the bot-=
tom. The onglos boing so wide apert indicntod that tho stock could have a wido=
spon broek, This happomod in Decomber, 1931, when Stoel broke wider tha 45°
angle moving down from 111g, putting it into a vory weak position- in fact, in
the weakost position that 2 stock can got in until it can recovor this ongle,

In Junc, 1932, whon J. §, Stocl doclined to 214, it had dropped wider tho 45°
onglo moving dovm from the Last low of 1134 mado in March, 1925, nnd olesed two
months bolow this angle bofero it startod to rosover anglds.

This shows that when 4 stock gots into a very woak position by dropping wn-
dor important onglos moving down from bottoms, after having broken strong angles
moving up from bottoms, it can declino to very lew levals, Thosa extreme fluctuse
tions and declines hava happened in the past and will happen again in tho future.
This proves the squaring out of Timo on the down side or tho balancing up of
FPrico and Tima,

Hore is onothor illustration of the balancing of Prico with Timo; The engle
ef 45° moving up from "OQ" from the bottem at 21% from October, 1907 crossed at
262 in September, 1929 and Steel edvanced to 261, which shows that in 262 months
from the bottom in 1907 Steel had advanced an equivalent of one point per month.
By striking the 45° enéle and failing to cross it, it indicated that the Time
was up end that the stock was turning downtrend for a prolonged bear market,

ANGLES OF MOVING-AVERAGE LINES FROM ONE TOP TO THE NEXT TOP

Refer to example on Chart #9 on page 17.

--- PAGE 18 of 34 ---

[OCR] Gist

You will see that wa have started the bottom at 60. The stock advances six
months to 74, to a point marked "T" ond makes top--reacts for three months te 64,
bronking the 45° angle but rosting on the onglo of 2 x 1 from the bettom——-then
starts advancing ond finally crosses again the 48° mele from 60, getting into a
stronger position, having regained this mgle, In order to determina where it
might meet resistence, os it is in new high territory, we drow. a 45° ongie from
tho top at 74, The stock advances to 90 on the 22nd month from the bottom, strik-
ing the 45° angle from the first top at 74, on the 16th month from the first top,
Boing 18 points up above tho first top, the Time equals tho advonco in tho Price
above tho first top. The 45° angle shows that this is a strong Rosistonce point
ond a place to go short with stop one to three points above the 45° angle,
docline starts ond in the third month the stock ogein brenks under the 45° engle
from the bottom (at 60) at a vory high level. In other words, it is 24 points up
from tho bottom and is now in u much wonker position, because it is so fer from

tho base of support, and indicetes a decline egein to the angle of 2x 1 (marked
in groon).

Don't overlook this rule: After a stosk has advanced to a new high leval,
then declines to the old top at 74, this may be a support point unless it breaks
3 points under it. If it does ond alse bronks the angle of 2 x 1, it will be in

aweaker position and the next point te watch for support end a rally would be the
next bottom at 64,

ANGLES FROM BOTTOM OF FINST SHARP DECLINE

When a stock that has boen advancing for some time, makes top ond holds for
seVerol deys, several weeks or several months, then turns the trend dovm ond has
a sharp, severe decline, there is clweys a rally after this first decline, It
usually makes a lower top on this secondary rolly and then starts to work lower
agein. The bottom of the first decline is a very important point to draw angles

--- PAGE 19 of 34 ---

[OCR] ere)

from, capecially the 45° ongla moving down, as I have done on the ohart mnurkod
Form #10,

peepee | a

cs
“SEE HEE-E-H
SerrErree SS CCCePS Eo

|
JLT TI | i

This chart shows the stock rallying up to areund 75, where the 45° angle
coming wp from the last bottom crosses the angle of 2 x 1 coming down from the
top. Then the declino started and et 66 the steck brake back under the angle
of 45° from the top, which pot it in a very woek position, It declined to the
onglo of 45° coming down from tho bottom of the first sharp decline, This would
bo the squaring out of time from the bottom and would bea a place to buy for a
rolly. A stock will often declina ond drop a little balow this englo from the
botteom-—then if it holds for severcl deys sr wooks wndor this angle or on it,
it is « placa to buy for no rally,

On a Monthly Chart always carry this angle dam from the bottom of the
first sharp decline, as it often becomes very importent later on in @ campaign.

After o stock has been advancing for some time end then has a sharp break
lasting 2 to 3 days, 2 to 3 weeks, or 2 to 3 months--then rallies and afterward
breaks under the lows of this first sharp break, it indicates that the main trend
has turned down ond that it is going lower,

Apoly the same rule when ¢ stock has been declining for a long time and then
makes a sharp, quick recovery for 2 to 3 duys, 2 to 3 weeks, or 2 to 3 months,
then reacts ond then crosses this first rally point thet it made, en indication
of higher prices,

Last SWING IN A BULL OR DEAR MARKET

It is important to drow cngles from the point where the market starts up
ond makeg its last run in a bull market. Rofer to Chart #11 om page 19.

In this exumple note point marked “last bottom", In the last stage of the
bull market o fost udvance follows to a price of 84. We have drawn the ongle

--- PAGE 20 of 34 ---

[OCR] GASts

of 2x1 (a gain of 2 points por dey, woek or month) and the 48° anglo from this
bottom. When the angle of @ x lwas broken, it indieoated that the trond had
turned down. The stook declined ond roatod om tha 4169 mnglo--then rnlliod ond
made a socond Lower top-- thon broks the 45° angle—— declinod sharply and roasted
on the 45° anglo drawn from tho top ot 64, which indioated that Timo ond Price
had squared out or wore oqual. This would be a point to buy,with o stop loss
ordar 2 to 3 points under this onglo, for a rally back to the englo of 2 x 1 from
tho top, os shown on the chart.

In very activo fast-moving markets 4 stock may stay above tho angle of 4 x 1
or the englo of 8 x 1 from the "last bottom," but on Sho daily or weekly chart
after this first acute angle is broken, it indicates that the trond has turned
down.

Always romoambor that after a prolonged advance, whon the main trend turns
dawn, it is safor to wait for rallies end soll short then to buy against the
trond,

“HH EREEEE eH

All of thoso rules ara reversed at tho ond of a banr market or sharp de-
cling. It is important to note when tho markot starts down from tho last top
or relly ond mukes its last rum to bottom. Drew angles from this last top end
watch whon the markot roaches thase importent ongles end erosses thom, For
exemplo:

On March 9, 1952 the Dow-Jonos $0 Industrial Averages mado Inst top at 280,
from which a docline followod, with very small rallies, reaching bottom at 41 on
July 8, 1952. Noto on tha woekly chart that the angle of 2x 1 from the top at 90
crossed at 50 in the week ending July 30, 1932 and after thoy crossed this level
they nover declined te 50 again, and advanced te 81 in Soptombor, 1932. The cross—

--- PAGE 21 of 34 ---

[OCR] ing of this angle was the first definite indication Lhat the main Lrend had
burned up.

It is also important to review the major swing from November 9, 1931, when
the Averages reached a high of 1192, to the low at 404 in July, 1932. This was
the last big swing of the bear market, a decline of 79 points. The half-way
point of this was at 80. In September, 1932 the Averages rallied to 8l-~ then
after they reacted to 50 and advanced, getting above the half-way point, and
crossed 81, they indicated an advance to 119 anyway, After they crossed the
half-way point the second time and advanced above 81, they never sold down to it
again until they advanced to 1494 in November, 1935.

After a stock has been advancing for a long time, in the last run when there
is a lot of momentum, it may cross angles from previous tops or bottoms, then fall
back under them, which is an indication of weakness, When a stock has a sharp
decline and is making bottom, it will drop under important angles and then re-
cover quickly, getting above them, which shows that it is getting into a strong
position and changing trend.

ANGLES FROM HIGHER BOTTOMS AND LOWER TOPS:

What rule should be followed when stocks make higher bottoms and lower tops?

As stocks advance and make higher bottoms on the monthly, weekly or daily
chart, you should always draw angles from higher bottoms. Then, in the last
section of a bull market, if these important angles are broken from the last bot-
tom, you know that the trend has turned down.

Apply thie same rule as a market declines. Draw the angles from each lower
top and watch thetangles until the stocks again cross the 45° angle froma second,
third, or fourth lower top. The second lower top or second higher bottom is al-
ways very important to draw angles from and to measure Time from as well,

Example: Dow-Jones. Industrial Averages—
September 3, 1929 - Extreme high-
November 13, 1929 - Bottom of first sharp decline-
April 17, 1939 —- Big rally in bear market, second lower top-

July 8, 1932 - Extreme low, final bottom
September 8, 1932 - Top of first sharp advance afver bear market
ended-

February and March, 1933 = Second higher bottom from which bull
market was resumed.
These are the most important tops and bottoms to draw angles from.

SECTIONS OF MARKET CAMPAIGNS: |

All market campaigns, up or down, move in 3.to.4 sections. When an advance
starts, the market runs for several weeks or several months and then halts for
several weeks or months, moving up and down over a range of 5 to 20 points, ac-
cording tothe price of the stock--then the advance is resumed and the stock
crosses the high level of the first section, moves higher, halts again, and reacts
for a period of time-- then crosses the top of the second section and moves up
again for another period of time and nalts for the third time, which is a very
important point to watch as markets often culminate at the end of the third
section and a bigger decline follows,

--- PAGE 22 of 34 ---

[OCR] Most markets ryn out in three important sections or canpaigns. However,
after resting and reacting, if a steck crosses the third top, it will then move
up to the top of the fourth section, This fourth advance may be a shorter period
of time than the previous sections, or in some cases may consume a greater period
of time, especially if the stock is very active and high-priced. This fourth top

is very important and generally marks a culmination and a reversal for a bigger
decline,

For example: On March 12, 1935 CHRYSLER MOTORS declined and made low at 31--

FIRST SECTION of the advance carried the stock up to. 499 on May 16~
then the stock declined to 414,

SECOND SECTION-— On June 27 the advance started and the stock advanced to
new high levels, reaching 62% on August 10, which was top
of the second secLion- then there was a réaction to 574
and & resting period,

THIRD SECTION— Then there was another advance which started August 28.
The stock crossed the top of the second section and reached
high at 74 on September 11, top of the third section. Then
followed a reaction to 68 on September 21,

FOURTH SECTION— In October the top of the third section was crossed and
on November 19 Chrysler reached 90, top of the fourth
section, where it held for 5 weeks in a 6-point range while
distribution was taking place. This was a most important
point to watch for a final top and a change in trend. Then
the trend turned down,

Reverse this rule in a bear market. Watch the action of the market when it
makes the third and fourth decline. But, remember, in a bear market when ral-
lies come, they may make only one section or one move or in extreme cases only
make the second se¢tion~ then reverse and follow the main trend down.

You will find it very helpful to study and watch these various sectians of
a campaign and by applying the angles from tops and bottoms You can detect the
first minor and major changes in trend,

STRENGTH OR WEAKNESS DENOTED BY POSITION ON ANGLES -

The angles on the Monthly and Weekly Charts are of greater importance than
those on the Daily Chart because the daily trend can change quite often, while

only the major changes are shown according to the angles on the Monthly and Week~
ly Charts,

Always consider the distance a stack is from ite beginning point when it
breaks any important angle or crosses any important angle, The further away from
the beginning point, the more important the change in trend, whether this is
crossing an angle from the top or breaking under an angle from the bottom.

WHEN A STOCK IS IN THE WEAKEST POSITION:

A stock is in the weakest position when it has completed distribution and
broken under a 45° angle from an important bettom on the weekly or monthly chart.
It is also in the weakest position wher it has breken under the half-way point
between any important top or bottom. The longer the time period has run and
the higher the price, the weaker the position, lor example?

--- PAGE 23 of 34 ---

[OCR] VWH=ctec

If a stool hos advanced to 190 and has only moved dewn 25 points whon tho
46° omglo from an oxtromo low on a wookly or o monthly chart is broken, then it 45
in a vory woak position because lt is so far above tho half-wey point on its
price movemont, alroady having squared out the timo poried with price.

Woakmess in ao stock dovelops when 1% breaks the 3/4-point, tho 2/S-point,
tho 1/2-point, otc., but the position on the timing onglos from tho bottom tells
you still more about the weak position. A stock shows its first woalnoss whon
it breaks the first importont angle coming up from the last bottom in the final
run im a bull markot.

WHEN A STOCK IS IN THE STRONGEST POSITION;

A stock is always in tho strongest position coming up from a bottom when
it is holding above the vary acute angles on the daily, wookly or monthly charts,
especially on monthly and weekly charts.

As long os a stock holds above the angle of 2x 1 (a gain of 2 points per
day) on the deily chart, it is in a very strong positien os far os the bottom is
concerned, In fact, it is always in o strong position on tho daily as long Gs
it holds above the 45° ongle. The somo applies to weekly and monthly charts,
which arc the most importent trond indicators.

I have found that the stocks which have the biggest advences are these thet
always hold sbove the angle of 2 x 1 on the monthly chart or gain 2 points per
month for a leng period of time. JI have seen stocks rest 10 or 15 times on tho
angle of 2 x 1 and never brenk it until they have advoneed 100 points or more,
In this way a stock stays ahoad of time and steys within the square of time by
boing far above the omple of 45°, ond therefore is in a very strong position.
But the time must come when the cycle has run out and the main trend begins to
change from a bull market to og bear market—-then the breaking of the angle frem
the last bottom shows a change in trend.

‘nother indication that o stock is in a strong. position is when it advences
and moves up above the helf-way point of the previous price movemeut ond then
holds the half-way point, that is, advances above it and then reicts and fils
to bronk under it. This is just the same as resting on o 45° angle ond indi-
cutos o very strong position.

STRONGEST BUYING AND SELLING POINTS:

The cinch buying point is when a stock rests on a 45° ongle, placing a stop
loss order below it.

fmother point to buy is on the half-way point of the price movement, placing
a stop loss order under the half-wey point.

When the main trond is up, it is alse safo to buy when o stock roncts to tho
angle of 2 x 1 (a goin of 2 points per time period) on tha waokly or monthly
chert,

REGAINING ANGLES OR CROSSING LINES:

Remember, when any stock breaks under the 45° angle from the extreme low
point ef « move on the daily, woekly or monthly chart, it is then in a very weal
position ond indicates un docline to the naxt angle. However, when « stock can

--- PAGE 24 of 34 ---

[OCR] Gh-23
regain the 45° angle, it is in a stronger position.

Tho same rule applies te o 45° ongle drmm up from ony top. Whon a stook
erosses the ongle on the daily, weekly cr monthly end stays above tho 45° angle
er any other angle to the left of tha 45° onglo, it is in a very strong position,

After a stock once drops below or gots above any important anglo ond then

roevorsos its position by gotting back above the ongle or dropping back bolow it,
it changes the trend again,

WHEN A STOCK IS ITN STRONG POSITION FROM BOTTOM AND IN WEaK POSITION FROM TOP:

A stock ig in a strong position from the bottom when it is kKeoping above the
angle of 48° or the angle of 2x 1, byt at the same time it con be in o weak
position when it rallies wp ond strikes agninst a 45° ongle cr the angle of 2x1
coming dewn from the top— then it is a short sale until it can cross these angles

or cross provious tops. When it broaks the omgles from the bottom, it is in a
weak position and indicatos lower,

A stock can be in a strong position. from the tep and in a weak position from
the bottom, thet is, it mey cross some important ongles from the top after a
long period of time, but at tha same time may break wader the 2x 1 englo or 45°
engle from the bottom, which would indicate that it is in a weak position and
getting ready to go lower.

WHEN ANGLES FROM DCXTREME TCP ARE CROSSED:

The 45° mmgile draw from the extreme high point of a steck is most important
ond whon it is crossed, a major move may be expected, For example;

On the weekly chart of the Dow—Jones Industrial Averages, note the 45° angle
moving dowm from 386, the high of September 3, 1929. Jomnary 12, 1935 wos 279
wooks fromthe 1929 top. Talcing 279 from 366, wo got 107, the price at which the
ongle of 45° would cross. Those Averages advanced to 106k in the week onding
Jonuery 12, 1955-—- thon rooctod ¢o 100 in the wook onding Fobruary 9. This was
the first time thet they had held within one-half point of this ongle and the
first time that they had over reached it sinca the top was made, During tho
woek ending Februcry 16, 1935, tho Averages crossed tho 45° angle at 103 for the
first time, and during the woek ending Februory 23, 1935 advanced to 108, whore
thoy hit the onglo of 45° moving up from the low of Baa in September, 1954, ond
also hit the anglo of 2 x 1 coming up from the low of duly 8, 1932. Theis was a
strong resistance point ond the Averages reacted to 96 in the week onding March
18, 1935, whore they rested on the 45° anglo from the 1929 top and also where the
3 xl uglo (a gain of 1/5 point por woek) from Septomber, 1929 coming up from
"0" crossod tho anglo of 45° coming dam from the 1929 top. This was ce strong
support point for a change in trend. ‘Tho advanco started and tho Aversgos moved
up to now high lovals. This proves tha importance of angles, especinily tho 45°
angla drown from any extreme top, and the point at which any other ongle crosses
tha 45° onglo.

Watch the 45° ongle from 1929 top when it reaches “oO” or when it is 386 woeks
down from the top, This will be in tho latter part of January, 1937. Note what
heppens at thet time,

ANGLES FOR SEMI-/REKLY CHART

Tho semi-wockly chort is a greet help et tha ond of extremo advances or

--- PAGE 25 of 34 ---

[OCR] extremes declines. By applying all of the rules and using the geometrical angles
from tops and bottoms on the semi-weekly chart, you will often get an indication
of a change in trend two to three days before a change in trend is shown on the

weekly chart.

4A change in trend on the semi-weekly chart is of greater importance than a
change in trend on the daily chart, It is much better to rely upon this chart
than on the daily chart when markets are in a narrow trading range.

ANGLES FOR NEW LISTED STOCKS

Years of experience and research, which has cost me a large amount of money
have enabled me to develop a methed that will account for a1] market movements
and give rules to determine the trend from any top or bottom.

It is important to know how to determine the trend when a stock is first
listed on any exchange. When a stock has never fluctuated before, we have no top
or bottom to draw angles from, Therefore, in order to determine the trend, we
use the square of 90, which is 90 up and 90 across, and put all the natural angles
on, like the Pattern Chart. As we have szid before, the square of 90 is very
important because it is one-quarter af a circle of 360°, and as 90° or the ver-
tical angle is the greatest angle that can be used, all of the other angles are
found between "0" and "90",

If a new stock opens at 18 or any point below 224, then you could make out a
Square of 224 to determine the position of the stock on angles. [f the stock
opened at 36 or any point between 224 and 45, you could make up a square of 45.
If it opened at 50 or between 45 and 67, you could make up a square of 675. How-
ever, you could place any stock opening at any price below 90 in the square of
90 and get its proper position and strength or weakness on angles. If the stock
opened at 100 or above 90 and under 135, you could make up a square of 135, or
could make another square of $0 numbering from 30 to 180.

You could start a monthly chart on a square of 90 at the price where the
Stock opens or trading begins, as shown on U. 8. Steel. (Refer to Special Analy-
sis of U. 5, Steel,} After the stock breaks any of these natural angles drawn
from "O", it is just the same as breaking under an angle drawn from a bottom.
When it crosses any of the angles drawn down from "90", it is just the same as
crossing an angle from a top, as you can see by experimenting with U. S. Steel
or any other stock, but always consider price resistance levels and how much the
stock is up or down from the bottom or top. You can determine the first change in
trend by the d-day or semi-weekly Chart, daily chart, and weekly chart by bringing
up the important Geometrical Angles from any higher or lower bottom as the market
movements develop.

-—SUICK CALCULATION OF ANGLES

It is not necessary to draw these angles from a point a long way back.
You can make the calculation and determine where they cross. For example: Sup-
pose in 1900, in the month of January, a stock made bottom at 15, and we wish to
calculate where the 45° angle will cross 10 years later in January, 1910. The
48° angle rises at the rate of one point per month- then IO years would be 120
points or months-- add this Lo 15 at the bottom-- then the 45° angle would eress
at 135 in January, 1910. All of the other angles may be calculated a long period
back in the same way.

--- PAGE 26 of 34 ---

[OCR] ANGLES SELDOM USED

S x 2 ANGLE: This onglo of % x 2 on the lof sido of the 45° angle risos at the
rate of 8 points in 12 months, <A stock must show a goin of
3/4—point per month in order te koop above this angle. This ongle can be used
whon other importont anglos from the bottom have sproad fer apart, as it will
show the position and rosistance or support point betwoon the other ongles.

LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE

On all charts<-daily, weekly or mont thly—-the prica must move up or down on
the vertical angles. Thorofore, the prico movement is tho same as letitudo. You
should begin with zoro or "0" on ony chart--daily, weekly or monthhy--cnd drew tho
important onglos ond rosistoneo levels across, which measure Lotituda.

Noxt, numbor the timo points in days, weaks or months BOTOSS,, and drew tha
horizontal angio at ocgh importont naturel oglo, such as, 114, 225 , S32, 45,
564 +, 67s, Taz, 90, 1013 112d, 120, ote, Thon you will know whon price roeuchos
these importart onglos ” and mésts resistonco.,

Longitude moasuras tha time running noroess the chart, as it moves over ooch
day, wook or month, Thoreferc, you must koop your chart numbered from each
importent top ond bottom in order to got the time mo oguromonts aso. ere, to
eglos. Those important anglos, such os, 14, 22h, 33%, 45, 56%, 60, 67S, TBH,
$0, ote. from onch bottom ond top will show you whore tha strongost rosistens coe
in prico tnd time takes placo. Thoso angles prova the parallel or crossing point.
Study past records snd see what has happened when prises on monthly charts reached
these important ongles or time periods.

For example, 90 poipts-up in price from "0" we drew am angle horizonelly
across the chart, Then 90 days, weeks or months, going to the right neross the
shart, wo draw a vortdieg] cngle up, which will cross the horizontal engle at 90
end prove the square, By keoping oll these ongles up ond understanding them on
your charts, you will know when impertont time cycles are running out.

Tf the price of & stock at 60 comes out on the 60th day, week or month, it
will meet strong resistonce becouse it has resched the square of price with Time,
it is ot the same lntitude or price end ths same longitude or time period. You
con alwnys put the squore of 90 om 9 chert=<-sither daily, weekly or monthly—-snd
use the naturel ongles, but I advise only using this on the weekly ond monthly.
You cen begin this square of 90 from any bottom or top, thet is, going up 90
points, or from the naturni points, which are 90, 155, 160, but you must not fail
tO square the extrome low and high prica as well as the second ond third lower
tops and higher bottoms with Time.

RULE FOR KEEPING TIME PERIODS ON CHARTS

it is very important that you keep tho time parieds on all of your charts,
carrying them ceross from the bottom and top of each important move in order to
check up end know thot you have your angles or moving-nverages at the correct
point ond te see where major ond miner sycles indismts chonges in trend.

TIME PERIODS FROM BOTTOMS: “hen a stecsk makes bottom one month ond then the
following month makes a higher bottom and a higher

top, or anyey, after it makes a higher bettom and rellies for one month or more,

you con stort numbering from thet bottom, The month that it makes the low be-

--- PAGE 27 of 34 ---

[OCR] longs to the old or dewnward movement and is the last move down. You count tho
first month up as ong and then number acrogs on the L/t-inch squares, running
them across, adding four each time.

For exemple: If 2 stock has made bottem and advenced 50 points, you look
down at the bottom of the chart and find that you are on the 25¢h menth- then the
angle of 2x 1, moving up 2 points per month, would cross at 50, while the 45°
angle, moving up one point per month, would be at 25, and if the stock broke back
under 50 the following month, it would be falling weer the angle of 2 x 1 ond
indicate a further decline. Now, if you had an error on the chart in tha timing
or numbering across from the bottom, then the moving-average line or angle would
not come out correctly.

TINE PERIODS FROM TOFS:

After a steck has advemeed ond made on extreme high and reacted for a few
days, a fewweeks, or a few months, end you start putting on the ongles from ths
top down, you must then begin to number the time periods across from the top.
Apply the sama rula for the top: ‘Tho month, waok or day thot a stock makes ox-
treme high finishes the upward movement und is not to be counted. You can coun
the number of days, weeks or months moving scross after that, allowing the top
month to be "O", the next month, week or day over to be "1", adding 4 across on
the aquares to gat the correct position. If this Time Period is carried across
on all the charts correctly, then you can always check up and find owt if you
have made any mistake iu bringing down the engles or moving-everage lines.

For example; After oa stock has declined 75 points, either on a weekly or
monthly chart, the angles move dowm the same, except where the spacing is dif-
ferent. Assuming that the spusing is one pointwr oue-sighth inch, after it hos
moyed down 75 points and all the angles are dravm down from the top, there may be
om error in the angle of 2 x 1 because your ruler may have slipped and you may
not have placed it correetly ofter it is dom a distoncs from the top. New, in
order to prove exactly where the angle of 2 x 1 comes out, you determine the
number of time periods there are. If 40 doys, weoks or months have beon required
to decline the 75 points, the angle of 2 x 1 moving dowm 2 points per unit of
time, would be down #0 from the top. If you find that this angle does not cross
ot 80, than you knew that you made an error and should correct it.

This is a simple way to always kmow when the angles or moving-linas ere
correct because you simply add the movement to ths bottem and subtract it from
the top. Sunpose the price referred to above, when the stook has declined 75
points, was 150, then subtracting §0 from the top st 150, the angle would cross
at 70, ond the price of tha steck down 75 points would be at 75, therefore it
would be above the angle of 2x ] from the top and in position for a rally if
the time cycle indicoted it.

POINTS FROM WHICH TO NUMBER TIME PERIODS

The most important peint on the monthly high ond low chart to carry the
time period from is from the extrema low of the life of a stock and also from
the dete of incorporstion or from the date trading in thea stock began on the
New York Stock Exchange. From tho oxtreme low point the time period should al-
ways be corried asross on the chart just the samo as the important angles should
be continued right along fer years,

The next important point to number from is a seeond or third higher bottom,

--- PAGE 28 of 34 ---

[OCR] but you should not consider a bottom established until the market has held up or
advanced three to four months, Lhen commence numbering from that botLom if dy
appears Lo be important. For example:

U, S. STEEL was incorporated February 25, 1901, Numbering the months across

you will note that February, 1931, was 360 months, or 30 years, from
the date of incorporation. Then start a new cycle and begin mumbering across
from “O", This will be working out the second cycle or circle of 360°,

The next important point is the extreme low of G2 made May 14, 1904. On
the monthly chart carry the numbers acress from this bottom, because it is the
lowest bottom and therefore the most important. Note this 30-year cycle or
360 months ended May, 1934.

The next important point to number from and draw the angles from, is the low
of 2147 in Geveber, 1907, the first higher bottom. Then, the next important is
the third higher bottom made in February, 1915. Always draw the angles and num-
ber the months across from any other important bottoms where campaigns start.

Use this samé rule at tops. After top is reached and the trend turns down,
then carry the time numbers across from the top, but after any top is crossed
or bottom is broken that you are numbering from, then do not count that top or
Bottom of importance to number from; except to determine a time per Lod an another
cycle 3, 5, 7, 10 or 20 years ahead. Tops that stay for a long time without be-
ing crossed are always the most important to carry the Time Periods from. The
extreme high reached by a stock is always most impertant until that high is
erossed- then the next high point made on a secondary rally, which is always a
lower top, is the next most important top to number from. For example:

On U. S. Steél you would carry the monthly measurement across first from
the high in April 1901- then from the extreme high in October, 1909, and next
from the high in May, 1917- then from the final high in September, 1929, being
the mest important to measure from, and also number from the April, 1930 wep.

ANDUSTRIAL AVERAGES: The Dow-Jones 30 Industrial Averages reached extreme high

on September 3, 1929-- then declined sharply in the panic,
reaching low in November 1929-- from this low there was a really to April, 1930,
which was Lhe ladt high and very important to number from because it was a
secondary top, the last rally in a bull market. After final low of the bear
Market was reached on July 8, 1932, a sharp rally followed to September, 1932,
when Lop was reached-- then a slow decline followed, reaching bottom in late
February and early 1933, making this a secondary higher bettem, from which
stocks advanced to new high levels. The bottom in 1932 is the most important to
number from and the next bottom of March, 1933 is next in importance.

Apply this same rule to weekly and daily bottoms and tops. Discontinue the
time periods when any miner top or bottom is exceeded and carry only the main

figures on time periods from important tops and bottoms as long as they remain
unbroken,

The rule fer discontinuing the use of tops and bottoms for Time Periods is:
When a bottom or top ls exceeded by Lhree points, then discontinue the time period
from that bottom or top,

Always note the number of months between extreme high and between extreme
low points and note what angle the tops and bottoms come out on,

--- PAGE 29 of 34 ---

[OCR] CLT im i HHH

: HHH PEPE

i fl i a
tit tyi iy
Lil =
rer i

I LLI™ T +

rer rho He

im rit |

i yitt eri | Fa!

PEE i
ee Se

Fe Sep ae

iz 2 es ee | co

[ee | : _\_t

1 Ji 1 f i= i_|_}

Core rl in nm! ml f
ritit tli i rt
po Heer eye

oa i Gs ae +

mee etiececmaitrtaae itt

TAT Z

a ee i 7

PEREE CHEE” AUTRES sence

COPE Reeser HH

EEE RE EEAHEEE-EHEH CLot

cl Lit am Ji} 2 .

+ 1 ro HOC an

CPrrprrry | a itt

ee es Fg rt

Li Li ' e 1

aoe ‘ i SO |

ee See ee i : ———

evesesecmes era ene rE

Ce eee “-FERPEE

Ce tt HH

ERE PEERS

--- PAGE 30 of 34 ---

[OCR] SQUARING THE PRICE RANGE WITH TIME

This is one of the most important and valuable discoveries that I have ever
made, aml if you stick strictly to the rule, ard always watch a stock when Price
is squared by Time, or when Time and Price come together, you will be able ta
forecast the important changes in trend with greater accuracy.

The squaring of Price with Time means as equal number of points up or down
balancing an equal number of time periods--either days, weeks or months. For
example: If a stock has advanced 24 points in 24 days, then moving the 45°
angle or moving-average-line up at the rate of one point per day, the timing
line or time period and the price of whe stock are at the same level and the
stock ig resting on a 45° angle and you should wateh for an important change in
trend at this point. If a stock is to continue uptrend and remain in a strong
position, it must continue to advance and keep above the angle of 45°, If it
breaks back under this angle, then it is out of its square on the bear side of
the 45° angle and in a weaker position, When you are squaring out Time on a
daily chart, look at the weekly high and low chart and monthly high and low chart
and see if the stock is in 4 strong position and has yet to run out the time
periods, because on a daily chart it has to react and then recover a position,
squaring its price many times, as long as the weekly and monthly point up.

Markel corrections or reactions are simply the squaring out of minor time periods
and later the big declines or big advances are the squaring out of major tine
periods.

SQUARING THE RANGE: Refer ta Form #12, where a range of 12 points is shawn
from 46 low to 60 high. Now, suppose a stock remains for
several weeks or several months, moving up or down, in this range, never getting
more than 12 paints up from the bottom and not breaking the bottom: We start
the 45° angle from the bottom of 48 and move it up toe the top of the range to
60, then when we see the stock is holding this range and not going higher, we
move the 45° angle back to the bottom; then back to the top of the range again,
moving it up or down ever this range until the stock breaks out into new low
levele or new high levels. You will find that every time the 459 angle reaches
the top of this range or the boltom of this range, there is some important change
in trend of the stock.

_You can also use the angles of 2x 1 to the right of the 459 angle and the
2 ito the left as they again divide the Time Period inte two equal parts and
are of some value,

If a stock finally moves out of this range on the up side, then the angles
would begin at the new and higher bottom and move up, but from the point where
the stock went into new high, or from any important bottam made while it was in
the range, especially the last bottom that it made, which would be most important,
you should then begin an angle at that boLtom and continue on up again; watch
when this angle is broken or when Time is squared out again with Price,
which would be important for another change in trend, either major or minor.

--- PAGE 31 of 34 ---

[OCR] THREE WAYS TO SQUARE. TIME AND PRICE:

We con square the Ranga, that is, tho number of points from oxtrema low to

extrome high, with Timo- thon square tho oxtromo Low point with Timo- und aquare

the
and

1-

extrema high point with Tims, When the market passes out of these squares
brdaks important angles, the trend changes up er down,

The range thet a stock makes between extreme high and extreme low can be
squered so long as it remains in the same price range. If the range is 25
points, it squares with 25 periodsof Time-- days, weeks or months. Continue
to use this time period as long os it stays in the same range.

SQUARING TIME WITH BOTTOM OR EXTREME LOW PRICE:

The next important Price to square with Time is the lowest price or bottom
of any important decline. For exemple: If the bottom of « stock is 25, then
at the end of 25 days, 25 weeks or 25 months, Time and Price are equal. Then
watch for ea change in trend as based on its bottom or lowest selling price.
As long as a steck coubinues to hold one bottom and advances, you can always
use this timo period rumning across ond continuing the tima period, noting
avery time it passes out of the squares, Watch especially when the stock
reaches the third square, the fourth square, ond agein the soventh and ninth
squares of its time period. These squares only oocur frequently on the daily
or weekly charts, as the monthly, in most cases, would move out of a range,
up or down, before it squared a bottom as mony as 7 or 9 times, However,
this does sometimes happen when a stock is im a narrow range for many years,

SQUARING TIME WITH TOP OR EXTREME HIGH PRICE:

The other important point to square Time with is the extreme high price of e
stock. The Time period must be carriad across from the high of the daily,
weakly or monthly, and the square of the top price in Time must be noted

and watched for a change in trend. If the top of a stock is 50, then when
it has moved over 50 duys, S50 weeks or 50 months, it has reuched ite square
in Time end on impertent chenge is indicated. This can be determined by the
position of the angles from top and bottom, For example:

Dew-Jones Industrial Avereges— The high of 386 on September 3, 1929 would
require 386 calendar days te eguel the Price in Time, This occurred on
September 23, 1930. Look wt the chart and note how the trend changed and
turned down around thet time. Then, on Ostober 14, 1941, it rvum out this
period ogecin- and again November 4, 1932, November 25, 1935, Dacembor 16,
i934, ond January G, 1955, Look up these dates end you will see that
important chonges in trend occurred on the Daily Chart when this time period
of 366 days bulonced the price of 386,

Both major and minor tops and bottoms on all time periods must be watched as
they square out right along, Most important of all is the extreme high

point on the monthly high ond lew chart. ‘his may be very high ond work out
a long time poriod before it squeres the top, in which case you have to
divide the price inte 8 equal time periods and watch the most imnortant
points, like 1/4, 1/4, 1/2, $/%, bub most importent of all is when Timo equals
Price,

When you ara watching the position of a stock after i: hos squared out from

a bottom or a top, always look up the time peried and the oanglos from the op-
posite direction, If the market is nearing a low point, squaring out n top, seo
how its raloticn is to the bottom as it might ba in the second or third square

--- PAGE 32 of 34 ---

[OCR] WA-~oU
period from the bottom, which would be & double indication for a change in trend.

SQUARING WEEKLY TIME PERIODS:

The year contains 52 weeks and the square of this in Time and Price is 52
by 52. Therefore you can make up &@ square of S52 wide and 52 high; put on all
of the angles from "0"; then chart the weekly high and low prices of any stock
in this square, For example: If the low price of a stock is 50; then the Lop
of this weekly square would be 52 added to 50, which makes 102 as top of the
square. As long as the stock stays above 50 and moves up, it will be working
in the weekly square of 52. On the other hand, if the stock makes top and works
down, you would make up a weekly square 52 points down from the top and 52 over
tbo get the time period,

You can take the past movement of any stock, Put on a square of 52 by 52,
and study the movement, noting 13 weeks or one-fourth, 26 weeks or one-half, and
29 weeks or three-fourths points on time, and the changes in trend which take
place when the stock reaches these important Resistance Points in Time and Price.
You would watch for a change in trend around these time per ieds.

SQUARING MONTHLY TIME PRRIONS:

At the time a stock breaks a 45° angle, if it is selling at 135 on the
135th month, it is breaking a doubly strong Resistance Level-- a strong angle
and a natural Resistance Level. This would.be Time and Space balancing at
Resistance Levels or geometrical angles and would indicate a big decline to fol-
low. ~ Reverse this rule at the end of a bear campaign.

On a monthly chart twelve months completes a year, therefore the square of
12 is very importarit for working oul time periods on the monthly chart. The
square of 12 is 144 and important changes often occur on even 12 months! periods
froma bovtom or top of a stock. It will help you if you use the Resistance ,
Levels on prices of the even 12's, noting 24, 36, 48, 60. 72, &4, 96, 1O8, etc,
Watch how the stock acts on angles when it reaches these important Resistance
points in Price,

PRICE AHEAD OF TIME

Why do stocks often cross the 45° angle on the daily, weekly or monthly
chart, then have an advance for a short period of time, decline and rest on the
same 45° angle? Because when the stock crosses the 45° angle the first time, it
has no} run oyt or evercome the square of Time with Price, Therefore, on the
secondary reaction, when dt rests on the 45° angle, it is at a time when the

stock has reached the square of distance in Time. After that a greater advance
follows,

Reyerse this rule at the top of a bull market, When a stock breaks under
the 45° angle 2 long'distance from the base or bottom, it is most important,
Many times a stock will rest on the 45° angle in the carly stages of an advance,
then later, on a reacbion, rest on it again; then have a prolonged advanee, re—
act and rest on the 45° again, and then advance to a higher level; then break
the 45° angle the next time, which places it im an extremely weak position be-
cause it is so far away from the base and sa much time has elapsed since the
stock made low. Don't forget--It is most. important when angles are broken on
she monthly and weekly charts,

--- PAGE 33 of 34 ---

[OCR] This accounts for stecks that have a sharp, quick decline frem tho top ond
Shen odvonce and malo o slightly highor tov or a sorias of slightly lowor tops,
end work over until they overcome tho squaro of the prico range ot conparctive—
ly high lovel end break tho 45° ongio, thon a fast decline follows.

STRONGEST ANGLES FOR MEASUHING TIME AND PRICE

90° ANGLE: Why is the 90 degrco smgla the strongest angle of o117 Because it
is vortical or straight up and straight down.

180° ANGLE: What is the next strongest mglo to tho 90° emgio? Tho 180° anglo
becnuso it is square to the 80° anglo, boing 90° from the 90° cnglo.

270° ANGLE: Whot is tho noxt strongest englo ta tho 180° anglo? The 270° engle
because it is im opposition te 90, or 180° from tho 90° anglo, which
equals 1/2 of the cirelo, tho strongest point. 270 months equals
22% yoars, which is 1/2 of 45,

360° ANGLE; What is the next strongost englo after 2702 It is 560°, becmusc it
onda the cirele and gots back to the boginning point ond is opposito
180° or tho half-way point, or tho angle which cquals 1/2 of the
eirclo,

1209 AND 240° Whot onglos sre noxt strongest to 90, 180, 270, and 360°?
ENGLES fmswor: 120° end 2409 angles, because they are 1/3 and 2/3 of tha
oirole, 120° is 90 plus 30, which is 1/3 of 90. 240 ic 180 plus
1/3 or 60, which makes these strong angles, especially strong for
measurements of time.

45° ~ 135° — 225° — 315°: What angles are next in strength?

—_ imswor: 48° angle, because it is 1/2 of 90,
155° angle, because it is 90 plus 45,
225° angle, because it is 4 plus 180; end
SL5° angle, because it is 45 from 270.
The angle of 225° is 180 from 45 and the
ongle of 515° is 180 from 155.

CARDINAL & fhe angles of 90, 180, 270, and 360 form the first important cross,

FIXED choss: \mowm as the Cardinal Cress, The angles of 48, 135, 225, and 515
for the next importent cross, which is kmown as the Fixed Cross.
These ongles are very importont for the measurements of tima and
space or price, and volume,

zee° - 67h° - 76R°; Why is tho onglo of 224° atronger than 113°? Because it is
tivwice as much, being the same reason that a 45° engle is
stronger thon 2 223° ongle. Agein, the ongle of 672° is
lé times 45, therefore quite strong when anything is moving
up toward 90°, Tage is stronger than B7R°, becouse it is
7/8 of 90, ond therefore ono of the strongest points bafore
90 is rouchod—-important te webeh both on timo, price, ond
volume, Meany stocks have important moves nnd make Lops or
bottoms mround the 7Téth to 80th day, woek or month, but
dontt ovarlook 84 months or 7 yoars, a strong time cycle.

DIVISION OF $1: Why ore the ongles of 1/8 of a circle most important for time
1/8-POINTS end space measurement? Becausa we divide $1 into LA, 1/4, ond

--- PAGE 34 of 34 ---

[OCR] 1/8 purty. We veo 26 conta or ong quartor, GO canto or half dollar, ond Long,
yonrs age wo hod 128 cant plioces, Whilo the most importent figures of our basis
ef money are the four quarters, wo do use the 1/8 port or lZ% comnts in oll eai-
culations, Stock fluctuations ure based on 1/8, 1/4, 3/6, 1/2,.5/8, 3/4, 7/6
wad the whole figure, ‘Therefore, my price modsuremont os well as time will werk
out closer to these figures when chenged into angles of tame than 1/3 or 2/3
points, for the simple reason thet the fluctuations moving in 1/8 proportion must
come aut closer to thase Tigures.

Figuring $100, or por, as a basis for steck prises and changing those prices
te degrees, 122 oqunls 48°, 25 equels 90°, 374 equals 135°, 50 equals 160°, 62%
equals 225°, 75 oquals 270°, BRE equals 315°, ond 100 aquals 360%. For exnmpla:

Whon ao stock selis at 60 on the 180th day, wook or month, it is on the do=
groq of its timo melo,

On February 1, 1915, U. S. Steel made o low at 38, which is closest to ao
prico of S74, which is 3/8 of 100 ond equals 1357 anglo, Stocl wes 14
years or 168 months old on February 25, 1915, and hit the ongle of 135°,
whieh showed that Steel was behind time, but that it was in « strong
position, holding at 38 above the 135° angle or the price of 37s.

When Steel roachod 200, it equalled 2 circles of 360°, hon it advanced

to 2612, it was closest to 624 in the third 100 or nearest the 225° angle
or 8/8 point, which is the strongest angle aftor it corossod the half—wey

point ot 250 or 160° angie.

Novemboar, 1855